Lloyds TSB's proposed takeover of the Edinburgh-based institution would create a 'super-bank' with 39 million account holders, 30 per cent of all mortgages and 35 per cent of all savers' cash  but thousands of jobs are likely to be lost in the integration process. A run on the bank's shares, which plunged 50 per cent in a day before the takeover news broke, prompted City watchdog the Financial Services Authority to impose a temporary ban on speculators thought to be short-selling  forcing the price down by betting on the shares falling in value.'While we still regard short-selling as a legitimate investment technique in normal market conditions, the current extreme circumstances have given rise to disorderly markets,' says Hector Sants, chief executive of the FSA. 'As a result, we have taken this decisive action, after careful consideration, to protect the fundamental integrity and quality of markets and to guard against further instability in the financial sector.'Central banks meanwhile have pumped billions of dollars into financial markets around the world to try to restore liquidity and confidence, but have their work cut out following multiple distressed rescues, fire sales and failures in the US  namely mortgage behemoths Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, insurance giant AIG and investment banks Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers, the world's fourth largest investment bank with 25,000 staff, 5,000 of them in the UK. At the time of going to press, investment bank Morgan Stanley was expected to join the toll. High street banks over here including Royal Bank of Scotland launched rights issues earlier in the year to raise millions of pounds of new capital from shareholders, while there has been a rash of merger activity elsewhere in the sector. Spain's biggest bank, Santander, bought Alliance and Leicester, while the Cheshire and Derbyshire building societies merged with Nationwide. But the consensus is that financial services is not out of the woods yet. The general financial sector is one of the highest scoring sectors in Ernst &amp;amp; Young's latest tally of profit warnings for the second quarter of 2008. The high cost and scarcity of debt as lenders try to improve their own liquidity is exacerbating conditions across every industry, and isn't predicted to ease soon. 'Estimates suggest that the current total of write-downs by financial institutions could still double, and in such uncertain times banks won't throw off their parsimony,' Ernst &amp;amp; Young says. A net 47 per cent of lenders reported falling availability of secured loans for households in the second quarter, while a net 22 per cent expect conditions to tighten still further in the next three months. A third of lenders also reported falling availability of corporate debt, with 9 per cent expecting this to worsen in the next quarter.In the wider economy, housebuilding, holidays, car sales, retail and leisure are among the sectors worst hit so far by the shut down of financial markets and soaring price of fuel, food and raw materials.In the travel sector, the crisis has already claimed airlines and tour operators including XL, Zoom, Seguro and Alitalia, with others predicted to follow.Mark Tanzer, chief executive of the Association of British Travel Agents, says failures like these were disappointing, but suggests the fundamentals remain strong. 'Ours is not the only industry to be affected by the economic climate, and I expect to see continued consolidation of travel organisers over the coming months  a process that started last year with the merger of the largest four tour operators (Thomas Cook, MyTravel, Tui and First Choice) into two,' he says. 'Although these pressures are severe, and will continue to be felt in the short term, underlying demand remains strong. The reduction in industry capacity that follows a failure such as XL may well work to the advantage of other tour operators. The travel industry has historically proved itself resilient to external shocks such as this.'At Baker Tilly, restructuring and recovery partner David Menzies says the firm is receiving many enquiries from travel agencies at the lower end of the market, while leisure sector operators such as pubs, restaurants and clubs accounted for about a quarter of its appointments nationally. However in Scotland, property development has been bearing the brunt of the downturn, particularly in the residential market, where banks have cracked down on mortgage lending. 'With the general downturn and the lack of certainty in the economy, people are really not prepared to move unless they have to,' Menzies says. 'As a result of that, property prices certainly aren't increasing and in fact seem to be declining at the moment. 'We've got a couple of property companies whose sites were worth quite a bit six months ago but they're now decreasing in value. That then puts pressure on a highly geared company where the bankers are becoming more uncomfortable. Loan-to-value percentages are going way outwith the banks covenants and that's causing a lot of problems. If companies aren't able to sell their residential units, it then impacts on their cash flow and their ability to service debt.'Rob Caven, recovery and reorganisation partner with Grant Thornton Scotland, says the residential construction sector had been dealt a particularly heavy blow as credit and confidence dried up. House prices are falling more than 6 per cent year-on-year and mortgage approvals, a key indicator of future prices and demand, are at record lows.'House building is almost dead in the water at present, with jobs in the industry disappearing by the day,' Caven says. 'As a gauge for the greater economy, this is not good news.'Sectors directly affected by discretionary consumer spending, including retail and leisure businesses such as pubs and restaurants, are also set for a very turbulent time in the next 18 months, although no sectors are immune. Latest figures from Grant Thornton show the number of companies being placed into administration in Scotland almost tripled from 12 to 35 between the first and second quarters of the year, and up from only 11 during the same quarter in 2007. Insolvency practitioners are also reporting signs of distress in motor retailing. In August the Scottish Motor Trade Association reported a 21 per cent drop in new car registrations to 4,578 units compared to 5,813 in August 2007. 'These figures do not come as any great surprise, bearing in mind the current difficult trading conditions,' says SMTA chief executive Douglas Robertson. He hopes September will give new car sales a boost, but fears there would be more disappointment as the credit squeeze tightens and the economy slows further. 'We feel that an interest rate cut is now becoming a matter of urgency and that urgent action is required by the government in the short term to boost consumer confidence,' he adds.Professional services firms  often maligned as the only winners from economic misfortune  are not immune to the slump and those focused on property- related activities including conveyancing, valuation work, mortgage advisory and estate agency have been particularly badly hit. Movewithus, the UK's biggest network of independent estate agencies, predicts that 4,000 of the UK's estimated 12,000 agents will close, while in Scotland, solicitors are suffering. In July, Dundee-based Blackadders Solicitors announced plans to make up to a quarter of its workforce redundant. The move will see the firm, which has 240 partners and staff, shed around 40 to 60 jobs, affecting both lawyers and support staff.Managing partner Johnston Clark blames the decision on the 'human cost of irresponsible bank lending over the years', adding that the credit crunch hit lenders hard and inevitably had a knock-on effect on the property market with a slump in the number of people buying new homes. Clark says the estate agency, residential and commercial conveyancing parts of the business had been hit and predicts the market will not see any recovery until at least 2010.Stephen Cartwright, managing partner of Dundee-based accountancy firm Henderson Loggie, says lawyers in particular would be feeling the draught of the downturn in the property market but adds: 'Other professions like chartered surveyors will also be affected, because if fewer people are moving house there is less need for property valuations. 'People focus on the construction sector and housebuilding in particular, but it can have as much of an effect on civil engineering businesses, engineering consultants and architects as well. We were interviewing recently for a new human resources manager and the one we appointed had been head of HR with a London firm of architects that was laying people off.'If there was a positive outcome to all the gloom, it would be in focusing the minds of businesses across all sectors who had lost touch with the true workings of their finances.'What we find as accountants is that businesses don't tend to focus on their profit and loss when times are good because they're making money,' Cartwright says. 'Not many businesses can truly tell you where they make money and where they lose it in good times, as long as it's on the right side. It's not that it's irrelevant, but there's less focus on what is less profitable or unprofitable because it's all disguised in making a profit for the year.'It's only when there's a downturn in the market that businesses start looking at costs, start dissecting the business and seeing where they're losing or making money. The point is they should be doing that as a matter of course anyway, because if they're not they could be leaving money on the table in terms of profitability.' In the retail sector, profit warnings are at record levels as soaring domestic bills force families to slash their spending.The latest Scottish Retail Consortium shop price index showed a 4 per cent fall in High Street sales for July, the biggest si...
