By Gillian Bullock, ninemsn Money September 2008The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) may be planning a few more interest cuts but the question is, will the banks pass these reductions on to home borrowers? Saul Eslake, chief economist with ANZ Bank, says with the cost of funding under pressure the RBA may have to make a 50 basis point cut in the base rate in order for the banks to cut mortgage rates by just half that amount. 'It's the same forces that prompted the banks to act independently of the Reserve Bank by raising rates earlier this year that may see them keep rates high,' says Eslake. 'If the situation [with the financial meltdown] intensifies then it will be more difficult for the banks to pass on cuts.' This view is echoed by the RBA governor Glenn Stevens who recently said that banks would not readily reduce rates as costs for banks on global debt markets were still high. But while cuts are certainly on the cards, economists are divided as to whether they will take place in October or if the RBA will hold out until November, although the odds (and the futures market) are favouring October as the meltdown continues. But whichever month it is, the consensus remains that the current 7 percent base rate will be down at the 6 percent mark this time next year. Going against the consensus is Lewis South, economist with Macquarie Funds Management Group, who believes the rate cuts won't be as aggressive. 'The market thinks there will be two more cuts before the end of the year and two more in the first half of next year,' says South. 'We don't believe it will be quite as aggressive and only expect one rate cut before the end of the [calendar] year.' Every 25 basis point change in the mortgage rate can mean a saving of just over $50 a month on an average $300,000 home loan. At present, variable interest rates on home loans are between 8.31 percent and 9.74 percent, according to figures released by Infochoice. Lisa Montgomery, head of advocacy at Resi, says the tightness in funding which is making it difficult for lenders may well lead to greater competition in the market place with some lenders passing on all of the expected rate cuts while others may not match the entire cut. While banks may be reluctant to lower mortgage rates as the cost of funding bites, the chance of credit card rates being cut are even lower. In fact, when rates were cut in September, some credit card rates actually rose. With all the attention on home loan rates it can be easy for credit cards to fall under the radar. 'There is less public attention to credit card rates, so the default rate goes up,' says Eslake. Interest rate movements always beg the question of whether you should remain variable or move into fixed rates. Obviously if rates are falling, the argument for fixed rates loses its attraction as you could find yourself locked in with a mortgage rate well above the market rate down the track. Currently the range for a three-year fixed rate is 7.55 percent to 9.96 percent, so there seems very little benefit from going down that path. 'You are better staying variable if rates are coming down as the fixed rate is only just below the floating rate,' says Shane Oliver, chief economist at AMP Capital. But Resi's Montgomery suggests you might want to fix part of your loan for just a year to see how the market pans out. As for savings, while the term deposit rate may come down slightly, Eslake makes the point that you are still better off getting 7 percent rather than 8 percent on cash than a negative return from the sharemarket. But Eslake cautions against selling out if you are already in equities as this would crystallise your losses. So while it seems certain we will have a lower base rate, the question remains: just what will happen to your mortgage rate? 
