Volatility in financial stocks extended through Tuesday evening's late-trading session, with shares of American International Group Inc. down sharply following a report of a possible conservatorship for the insurance behemoth. But shares of SanDisk Corp. soared after the computer memory products maker was handed a purchase offer for $26 a share. AIG shares plunged more than 52% after a Bloomberg News report that the U.S. Treasury was mulling takeover options for the company, including placing it under a conservatorship. The company, in a statement, said Tuesday evening that it's trying to increase short-term liquidity at its parent company and that it won't reduce capital at any of its subsidiaries or tap into Asian operations for liquidity. AIG said its life insurance, general insurance and retirement services businesses remain adequately capitalized and continue to operate normally. AIG didn't mention its derivatives business. The company has been hit with derivatives exposure to the meltdown of the housing and mortgage markets.Stock in the insurance firm was last down 45%, at $2.06 on volume of more than 87 million shares. Morgan Stanley shares lost earlier gains and were off 1.1% at $28.40. The shares had soared after the company said that its fiscal third-quarter net income came in at $1.425 billion, or $1.32 a share, down slightly from a year earlier when the investment bank made $1.543 billion or $1.44 a share. Net revenues were $8 billion in the latest quarter, up 1% from last year. Wall Street was expecting earnings of 79 cents a share, according to a FactSet analyst survey. The quarterly figures were released ahead of schedule and come in the wake of turbulence among Wall Street's biggest financial firms. Elsewhere in financials, shares of Washington Mutual fell 5.2% to $2.20, Bank of America fell 2.2% to $28.90, and Citigroup was off 1.6% at $15.50. Wall Street has undergone a massive shake-up since this weekend, with the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, the proposed $50 billion sale of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co., and the uncertain future of AIG. But the U.S. Federal Reserve earlier Tuesday opted not to move its key interest rate from 2% despite calls from the market for an ease. U.S. stock losses deepened after the decision, but eventually reversed course. Read Market Snapshot.On the late-trading tech front, SanDisk shares jumped 55% to $23.35 after Samsung Electronics said it offered to buy SanDisk. Samsung, the world's largest producer of flash-memory chips, said its proposal can be funded with cash on hand and available financing. SanDisk had informed Samsung earlier this week that its offer was not sufficient. Shares of software firm Adobe Systems Inc. rose 3.7% to $39.55 after the company said its fiscal third-quarter net income was $191.6 million, or 35 cents a share, compared with $205.2 million, or 34 cents a share, a year ago. Sales rose to $887.3 million from $851.7 million. Excluding special items, Adobe said earnings were 50 cents a share. Analysts had estimated earnings excluding special items of 46 cents a share on $878.9 million in revenue. The Nasdaq-100 After Hours Indicator, which tracks the evening trading action of the tech-heavy index's leading stocks, fell 5 points to 1,718.85. 
