IN his academic days, US Fed chief Ben Bernanke studied the disastrous policy mistakes made by his predecessors that sent the US and the world into the 1930s Depression.His radical policy moves in the past few weeks are somewhat of a contrast to the 1930s actions when official interest rates kept rising while banks were falling. The precedents being established now are indeed startlingly dangerous and, in Australia at least, the reaction to the $US85 billion AIG bailout went quickly from positive to negative, with concerns increasing on just who would go next. The reasons why Bernanke has swooped with such unprecedented zeal was to try to prevent the contagion spreading further. Whether this policy succeeds remains to be seen but, in the meantime, the policy risks are enormous. AIG's equity was wiped out and the cost of its debt, at 8 per cent above market, is such that the Fed has effectively just closed the door rather than granted a sweetheart bailout. The risks are still balanced because, on the one hand, the cost of debt is now high for everyone while on the other there is some mitigation of the danger of being seen to reward the risk-takers. Even if Bernanke gets the balance right, the bailout is, by definition, an extraordinary distortion in the market. The US has damaging form in market distortion, which surely puts to rest its claim to be the home of capitalism. Three weeks ago, Bernanke had to bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two institutions created in the Depression to ensure there were enough funds for mortgage lenders. Like all bad regulations, there was no sunset provision or end date. Worse, instead of scrapping the institutions in the 1960s, they were allowed to go public to compete against the private banks but with the assumption that the government would bail them out if they got into trouble. In the late 1970s, the US bailed out Chrysler instead of letting it fail, and Detroit has been sliding into oblivion ever since. Here we go again with the nationalisation of Wall Street, which has left the incoming government with a massive policy problem. The immediate problem is the crisis of confidence that the AIG move simply amplified. Some worry the delay between Monday's Merrill Lynch takeover by Bank of America and the release of any detail may indicate some unforeseen problems that may jeopardise the deal. If, within a matter of days, the US Fed can go from rejecting a $US40 billion bridge loan to AIG to an $US85 billion bailout the obvious question is what goes wrong next? The accompanying tables show the fall in market value for selected stocks in Australia from their 52-week highs to yesterday's close and a one-year move in selected US stocks. The Bush administration is running a $US500billion deficit, an economy in recession and has taken on the following liabilities -- $US85 billion to buy AIG, potentially a couple of trillion dollars if the US mortgage market collapses under Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and $US29 billion to sweeten Bear Stearns for JPMorgan. The ASX was on the phone yesterday to the big three Australian insurers to check their exposure to AIG which, while commendable, underlines the real danger that no-one really knows what the next fall will be. A flood of small bank failures in the US is not out of the question when you consider that at last count some 304,000 home loans are in some stage of default. The Fed's Bernanke is trying desperately to put a floor under the market but nobody seems to be talking about ways to prevent it happening again. Derivatives have long been a source of concern for policy makers around the world and they have largely gone unregulated. If you think the US went overboard with corporate governance regulation post the Enron collapse then wait until to you see the barrage about to hit the market when the new administration comes to town in January. AIG was a model insurance conglomerate with everything from life, to director, to car insurance and all sorts of other products, all under the one house and spread around the globe. The idea is that diversification minimises risk. One of the products was credit default swaps which, at the risk of over simplification, means insuring financial products from the risk of default. So called CDS is a classic market-regulated product because counter party risk is the arbiter on whether the product works or not. If AIG went under, just about every bank in the world would have to write down the value of one of their investments to offset the fact the risk suddenly went sky-high. This means higher costs for Australian banks and, as banks are not lending to each other any more, they are not about to lend to anyone else. Which explains why the Australian economy may not be heading into a recession but, as the RBA governor Glenn Stevens said himself yesterday, a slowdown. One reason Australia is doing better is demand for resources from China, which makes its interest rate cut this week a notable event, highlighting its concern about the rest of the world's economy. The present administration is seemingly cool in the face of the crisis, which probably reflects Australia's impotence. But what better time for the long promised-reforms on increased market transparency and stock exchange de-regulation. Yet, sadly, that doesn't seem any closer. Coke out in the cold with Frucor IT may come as a surprise to some but as much as the market talks up Coca-Cola boss Terry Davis's interest in buying all, or part, of the Frucor fruit and energy drink business from Danone he is not even on the short list for the $900 million-plus sale. The reason being that just as in Australia, the New Zealand competition rules are keeping him on the sideline. He has raised the prospect of buying just the Venergy drink, which may be fine but as things stand the product is not for sale as a separate entity. Mac exposure 'immaterial' MACQUARIE quietly revealed last night that it had 'immaterial' exposures to AIG of $33 million, and $21 million to Lehman. Just why it took until last night to reveal the figures in the wake of ASX calls to the other banks and insurance companies remains unclear. Macquarie doesn't help its cause by burying the figures below albeit positive news from S&amp;amp;P on its credit rating.
