GLOBAL markets have reached a dangerous tipping point with the increasingly lethal threat to America's insurer American International Group.Forget about Lehman Brothers: AIG is now the biggest game in the world. Should the US Federal Reserve fail in last-ditch efforts to secure breathing space for AIG, then sub-prime's cascading woes will have slowly smashed financial markets into worse shape than the legendary market meltdown of 1987. And, from there, governments and banking regulators alike will have to ponder the previously unthinkable: are we on the way to a place comparable with 1929? Sure, equity markets have a way to go to match the nightmare of 29, when Wall Street dropped nearly 70 per cent and went to sleep for 20 years. But consider this. On the day sub-prime's contagion first infected equity markets, the All Ordinaries lost 409 points, or 7.3 per cent, to close at 5222 points in the biggest one-day retreat for 28 years. Last night, the All Ords hit 4799.8 points and no one, but no one, imagines it is headed for even the deadest of dead-cat bounces any time soon. So it is 8 per cent under its close on January 22 and probably heading further south. What we have seen play out over the past 72 hours ranks among the worst of worst-case scenarios. And, to be blunt, confidence in the outlook is now shot to pieces. Certainty is lost. Like Lehman, the threat to AIG has deep and unpredictable consequences. But it is a much bigger, more complex beast than Lehman and its integration with the real economy, with the lives you and I lead, is far more entrenched. AIG is a massive shop, the Citigroup of insurance. Every major bank in Australia, indeed, in the world, would carry some level of exposure to AIG. And, in turn, AIG's breadth of commercial coverage means it would probably provide some sort of insurance to just about anyone who needs it. As one corporate treasurer said yesterday: 'If AIG collapses, then the world doesn't have insurance.' On Monday the Federal Reserve knocked back a request from AIG for $US40 billion of emergency liquidity to forestall a threatened credit downgrade by ratings agencies. The problem for the Fed, apparently, is that it has no regulatory coverage of the insurance sector and so is unable to backstop the firm. The rescue mission has instead fallen to US Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson. It was Paulson, a former head of Goldman Sachs, who threw $US100 billion life-lines around Freddie May and Fannie Mac. And Paulson was there over the weekend helping to herd Merrill Lynch into Bank of America. Now he is reported to be talking Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase into providing maybe $US75 billion of capital replenishing loans to AIG. But while Paulson talked and AIG was given permission to draw $US20 billion of liquidity from subsidiaries, the ratings agencies moved, with both Standard &amp;amp; Poor's and Moody's dropping a broad range of AIG ratings by a life-sapping two rungs. The fear is that the lower ratings will further constrain AIG liquidity and trigger $US13 billion or so in collateral calls in the debt-swap market. The AIG story is absolutely consistent with every other major group that has so far been brought undone by sub-prime's contagion. AIG has been brought undone by the collapse of housing prices in the US. Its specific problem is that it sold banks $US450 billion of insurance over fixed-income assets, including nearly $US60 billion of protection over securities linked to sub-prime mortgages. Once again then we are left asking whether here is a business that is simply too big to be allowed to fail. Certainly, that is the view among senior Australian bankers. There is a shaky consensus that Paulson knew the AIG issue was coming and that, in allowing Lehman to fail, he was saving his ammunition for a much more important battle. There is a view afoot too that the Fed is almost certain to stand behind Wachovia Corp, should the share market continue to pound America's fourth biggest bank, and that the Bank of England would, similarly, move to protect HBOS if its situation worsens. The other thing to note about the Australian mood is that there is some considerable anger at Lehman's failure. 'It is hard to avoid the conclusion that Lehman has 25,000 great employees and 10 arrogant pricks,' one banker noted yesterday. 'The 10 were offered $US55 a share for the bank and that was not enough. But what is it worth to them now?' One immediate impact here of another remarkable weekend of value destruction on Wall Street is that wholesale funding markets are completely shut. Overnight credit default swap spreads blew out by 25 basis points and they are expected to swell again this evening. Australian banks plan to raise maybe $120 billion or so from international wholesale markets to fund their 2009 lending programs. There is still confidence they will be able to fill their 09 funding books, but at a higher cost than would have been anticipated just last week. That, of course, raises the prospect that retail interest rates will again uncouple from the Reserve Bank's official cash rates. How mortgage rates play out over coming months is a tough call. There is a view that the Fed will move to shave its cash rate (it was due to meet last night) and there are hopes at the highest level of Australian banking that the latest events in the US may end the rate-cut caution evident in the latest RBA minutes. Rates, mind you, are not the only issue for our banks. Three of the Pillars took another slapping in the market yesterday with NAB, in particular, being brutalised. NAB's problems are its own, it must be said. Having attempted to reassure the market on Monday that its exposures were not material, it then went out and said 'not less than $100 million' was at risk. Its reward for again reinforcing its particular crediblity issues was another $1.5 billion (or 4 per cent) of market cap burned as NAB led the market retreat. While ANZ confirmed a higher level of exposure than NAB at $120 million, it lost but 3 per cent over the day while the Commonwealth, which revealed the top level of risk at up to $150 million, was treated comparatively kindly, closing less than 1 per cent lower. Then there was Westpac, whose shares appreciated after it declared less than $10 million was at risk in the Lehman situation. One interesting result of the Westpac rise is that it appears to have created a mini-arbitrage opportunity for the market, given the nearly 1 per cent fall in the price of merger partner St George. For the first time in several weeks, St George failed to track Westpac's price, leaving it trading at a 37c a share discount to the value implied by the Westpac offer. Mind you, given the state of the world, it is a play few may have the courage to play. The problem, as we keep observing, is that fear is now the key to this market. The question traders are asking is not when the recovery comes but rather 'when will we hit the bottom' and then, 'how long will we scrape along it'. 
