The futures market says the Federal Reserve is likely to cut a key short-term interest rate today. But the consensus elsewhere is that the Fed will hold the rate steady this time, while setting the table for a cut later.   There's roughly a 70 percent chance that the Fed will cut the federal funds rate by a quarter of a percentage point, according to futures pricing at the Chicago Board of Trade's CME Group. The federal funds rate has stood at 2 percent since April.Less than two weeks ago, investors and economists were guessing that the Fed's next move would be a rate increase, and that it wouldn't happen until next year. Then came the government takeover of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, followed by the bankruptcy of investment bank, the sale of Merrill Lynch to Bank of America, and problems in Washington Mutual and insurance giant AIG.Extraordinary timesEach of those events would be considered monumental in ordinary times. But we live in extraordinary times, and all of these things happened in one week. In a time of economic and financial uncertainty, thoughts naturally turn toward a Fed rate cut. And futures traders expect one.But a decrease in the federal funds rate might not be forthcoming today. Under Chairman Ben Bernanke, the Fed has tried not to surprise investors. The central bank typically plants hints, weeks in advance, of upcoming rate hikes and cuts.On the other hand, futures markets expect a rate cut today, and you could argue that investors would be unpleasantly surprised by the Fed holding the federal funds rate unchanged.No panic -- just resignationWilliam Hummer, chief economist for Wayne Hummer Investments in Chicago, said Monday that he believes the Fed will stay pat, keeping the federal funds rate at 2 percent. He predicts that the Fed will 'make a very strong statement that they're prepared to do more to maintain equilibrium.' Hummer says the argument for cutting the federal funds rate is that 'this has been a tough weekend and a savage blow for the markets. To buy a little insurance, they might want to drop rates a quarter.' While he can describe that argument, he doesn't buy it. Hummer recalls the panic surrounding the stock market crash of October 1987. 'There's no hysteria or panic [this week] as there was at that time,' Hummer says. 'Today, it's more acceptance and resignation to what's happening.' And less need for the Fed to reassure investors.Will a cut help?The good news for mortgage shoppers is that rates on home loans went down, http://www.bankrate.com/brm/static/mortgage-analysis.asp even before speculation revved up about a Fed rate cut. Fixed rates fell around an eighth to a quarter of a percentage point Monday, compared with Friday. Cameron Findlay, chief economist for LendingTree.com, says the rate drop has more to do with technical factors (how falling mortgage rates affect refinancing and vice versa) and less to do with economic fundamentals.Findlay says that if he looks at the financial landscape analytically, a Fed rate cut today seems unlikely. It wouldn't do much to stimulate the housing market, but it could lead to inflation and a decline in the value of the dollar in relation to other currencies.But the futures market expects a rate cut, and Findlay says he has learned not to contradict what most market participants suggest. Which is another way of saying that he won't be surprised if the Fed cuts rates today -- even if he thinks it wouldn't do any good.
