LATEST: Dominion Finance Group, part of sharemarket-listed Dominion Finance Holdings, has been placed into receivership. Dominion Finance Group, much the larger of the company's two operating subsidiaries, owes 6000 investors $224 million.However, the other main subsidiary North South Finance, will not be going into receivership. It is planned that it will have a meeting of its investors either late this month or early next to approve a wind-down of the business. North South owes investors about $67 million.The parent company Dominion Finance Holdings had been attempting to reach a moratorium deal for both its operating subsidiaries, which would have seen the in total 9000 investors - plus its bankers that are owed $76 million - repaid over time.However, its initial proposal was knocked back on August 22 by the trustees and now the receivers have been called to Dominion Finance Group by its trustee Perpetual Trust.Perpetual chief executive Louise Edwards said a winding-down proposal put by the company had been considered. 'However, in the case of Dominion Finance Group, we consider receivership to be the preferable course of action...' Rod Pardington and Barry Jordan of Deloitte have been appointed receivers.Well over a dozen finance companies have gone into receivership in the past two years. Around 30 are now either in receivership or in difficulty. About $3.7 billion of investors' money is affected. Dominion Finance Group, had been operating since 1954 - making it certainly one of the oldest, if not the oldest, of the companies to collapse during the meltdown that has devastated the finance company sector. Many of the companies that have failed were only set up during this decade.Dominion Finance Holdings, the parent company, caused some surprise in June when it froze investors' funds because only a month earlier it had announced a profit of nearly $9 million and declared a 1 cent a share dividend.It subsequently found itself suspended from trading by NZX for not releasing its annual report on time. The NZX subsequently lifted the suspension but refused this week a 'retrospective waiver' for Dominion regarding the breach of the NZX rules.The company finally released its annual report last week and it made for extremely grim reading.The initially declared $9 million profit had become a $108 million loss after the company made additional provisions for bad debts. It had negative shareholders' funds of $70 million. It was in breach of its banking and trust deed covenants. And its auditors said they were unable to form an opinion on whether its financial accounts portrayed a true and fair view of the financial position of the company as at March 31.Dominion directors said in the report if they couldn't get a moratorium deal approved for the company then 'alternative options' - possibly receivership - would need to be considered.The financial accounts showed impairments of some $95.5 million on finance receivables and a write-off of $26.6 million on intangible assets.Dominion directors said this additional provisioning had put both its main operating finance subsidiaries in breach of their banking commitments with BOS International (Australia) - part of the global HBOS group and with ASB Bank. 'The respective trustees and bankers have not at the time of finalising this annual report confirmed whether they will waive their rights to any action in terms of their deeds and facility agreements in respect of these breaches,' directors said. -
