 tops the list of prospective local creditors after it revealed yesterday that it had $150 million on the line. Most of CBA's exposure is through a commercial loan, but spokesman Bryan Fitzgerald said the bank had no exposure to the Lehman Brothers holding company that has filed a bankruptcy petition in the US. 'The Commonwealth Bank will continue to work with relevant parties in regard to its position,' Mr Fitzgerald said. Despite its relatively high exposure, CBA's share price emerged largely unscathed and closed down only 28c to $41.70. The big hits were absorbed once again by investment banks Macquarie Group and , and out-of-favour commercial banks ANZ and National Australia Bank. ANZ fell 51c or 3 per cent to $16.36, while NAB was off 92c or 4 per cent to $21.90. There was more potentially bad news for the two Melbourne-based banks last night after BusinessDaily confirmed that their general insurance businesses were exposed to embattled global insurer American International Group. Both NAB and ANZ market travel insurance to their customers that is underwritten by one of AIG's Australian insurance arms. If the Australian dollar continues to depreciate against the US currency, ANZ could emerge with the largest exposure to Lehman entities by the end of the week. ANZ disclosed in an ASX filing that its total exposure was approximately $US120 million, comprised of a $US28 million exposure to the Lehman holding company and a further $US92 million to Lehman subsidiaries. 'ANZ is not in a position at this time to provide an estimate of the likely loss, if any,' the bank said in the filing. Analysts slapped earnings downgrades on NAB yesterday after it appeared to correct statements made on Monday night that it had only 'minimal' exposure to the Lehman group. In an ASX statement, NAB indicated its exposure could be as much as $A99 million. The disclosure prompted Austock Securities to put a sell recommendation on the bank's scrip on expectations it will book a $1.5 billion charge for bad debts over the next year. Banking sector favourite Westpac was the only ASX-listed bank to close in positive territory yesterday after revealing that it had less than $10 million at risk with the Lehman group. Westpac shares rose 11c or 0.5 per cent to $23.26.
