SYDNEY, Sept 26 (Reuters) - Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ) has privately placed A$600 million ($500 million) of Tier 1 notes, the company said in a statement on Friday. The notes, issued by ANZ's New York Branch, will pay a monthly coupon of 200 basis points over the one-month bank bill swap rate. It is the second such issue in a week after National Australia Bank's (NAB) similar sized one on Monday. Tier 1 capital is a form of very liquid capital that banks are required to maintain as a cushion to protect bank deposits. The ANZ issue consists of convertible notes that are non-cumulative, perpetual and subordinated and will convert on Sept. 28, 2009 at the holder's option into ordinary shares with a one percent discount. ANZ, Australia's third-largest lender, can redeem the notes after Dec. 29. Proceeds will be used outside of Australia by ANZ for its general corporate purposes. The private placement is in addition to ANZ's other Tier 1 Capital offer of A$1 billion that is closing on September 30. NAB, the nation's top lender, sold A$600 million of Tier 1 in two tranches of A$300 million convertibles notes to the London unit of Deutsche Bank. The issue replaced NAB's hybrid offer completed in December 2007 which converted into equity this week. Both tranches, issued by NAB's New York branch, also paid 200 bps over the one month bank bill swap rate and can be redeemed by NAB on Dec. 24. They are perpetual and will convert at the holder's option into ordinary shares with a one percent discount. One of the tranches qualifies as innovative Tier 1 capital. Innovative and non-innovative Tier 1 capital are two types of capital with different characteristics. Non-innovative capital is the closest of the two to equity. NAB's innovative Tier 1 tranche will convert on July 24 2009. NAB's other tranche consists of non-innovative Tier 1. It is subordinated and stapled to NAB preference shares. It will convert on Sept. 24, 2009. ($1=A$1.20) (Reporting by Cecile Lefort) . ng
