MACQUARIE Group put its $4billion margin lending business up for sale yesterday, in a move that would release an estimated $200 million in capital and reduce its funding requirements.In a statement yesterday, Macquarie said it was talking to potential buyers. Macquarie said that it wished to maintain a strategic partnership with the business to allow it to continue to provide investment loan products to its clients. The decision follows a similar move in March to wind back its mortgage business. Both businesses now offer a low return on equity. In its statement to the ASX, the bank highlighted the increased cost of funds as the major reason for the potential sale. It 'reflects the increased cost of funding associated with changed financial market conditions over the past year', Macquarie said. Margin lending, which involves providing a loan to individuals and institutions to buy stocks, has become more difficult and less profitable as the cost of funding has soared amid the global credit crunch. In the past few months the credit default swap spreads of all banks have jumped, with Macquarie's one of the most dramatic. The bulk of Macquarie's investment lending business is retail margin lending and capital protection products. This book is estimated to be around $4 billion, and one fund manager who specialises in banks and insurance estimated the sale could release $200 million in capital. This would help Macquarie's funding position and improve liquidity. Macquarie shares fell 2.81 per cent to $38.20 yesterday, in a market that fell 0.5 per cent. The stock has fallen 25 per cent since the start of the new financial year and 50 per cent in the past 12 months. Analysts speculated that the traditional banks such as National Australia Bank, Commonwealth Bank, Westpac and ANZ could be interested. 'We have been waiting for Macquarie to sell some of its infrastructure but instead they are planning to sell one of their operating businesses,' one analyst said. Another analyst said the business might be difficult to sell in the current climate. Australia's margin lending business is dominated by Commonwealth Bank, Westpac and St George. Macquarie is a top 10 player.
