         AIG handles some of our company&amp;#039;s 403b plan (not me- I have Vanguard). They sent us an email this afternoon. Here is an excerpt:   1. Let me share some information that may help to reassure you during this time of heightened media attention. 2. Let me first focus on our parent company, American International Group, Inc. (AIG).   AIG is a leading global insurance and financial services organization with 74 million customers around the world.   At June 30, 2008, assets were $1.05 trillion and shareholders equity was $78.09 billion. In 2007, AIG had revenues of $110 billion.    In May 2008, AIG ranked 5th by assets and 13th by revenues, on the Fortune 500, an annual ranking of Americas largest corporations.  AIG continues to rank among the largest and strongest insurance and financial services companies in the world.   AIG has undertaken a comprehensive review of all its businesses with an eye toward improving results, reducing AIGs risk profile and protecting its capital base. The goal is to determine the optimal portfolio of businesses for AIG, sharpen its risk management and capital allocation processes, reduce expenses and strengthen its accounting and reporting infrastructure.  ...  1. The developments in financial markets during the past few days have been truly extraordinary.  2. As the U.S. financial crisis continues to deepen, I want to assure you that AIG is actively developing plans to improve liquidity in this unsettling period in American financial history. 3. Although AIG faces short-term liquidity pressures, the company differs from other financial institutions that have been under pressure in that AIG has strong, well-positioned businesses in diverse markets around the world and a deep asset base.  4. AIG continues to actively explore alternatives to work through these current challenges. 5. The insurance policies written by AIG companies are direct obligations of its regulated insurance companies around the world.  These companies are well capitalized and meet or exceed local regulatory capital requirements.  These companies continue to operate in the normal course to meet our obligations to AIGs policyholders. 6. Let me assure you of AIGs commitment to meeting its customers needs.   I could pick some of these apart, but I&amp;#039;ll just put it out there...  Adenovir  (...but they do handle my life insurance, car insurance and disability insurance)                  
