TOKYO, Feb 10 (Reuters) - Japanese government bond futures slipped on Tuesday as market participants closed out positions before a midweek holiday and awaited a closely watched U.S. bank bailout plan due to be unveiled later in the day.   But losses were limited on solid demand for new paper and as risk appetite was dulled by reports that raised doubts about the effectiveness of the bank rescue plan.  Japanese financial markets will be closed on Wednesday for a public holiday.  CNBC reported on its website that the Obama administration's bailout plan would include a new form of 'bad bank' combining public and private funds. Earlier, CNBC had reported that the U.S Treasury had dropped plans to establish a bad bank to buy distressed assets from commercial banks.  That rekindled risk aversion, taking the wind out of Tokyo's Nikkei stock average, which turned negative after starting the day sharply higher. 'If the bad bank plan is fully withdrawn, then that would be positive for bonds,' said Tatsuo Ichikawa, a senior fixed-income strategist at RBS Securities.  But analysts suggested it was too early to judge the longer-term implications of media reports on the U.S. bad bank plan.  JGBs were firmly capped as the market first wanted to weigh the details of the U.S. bank rescue plan due later in the day. 'Bonds could still be exposed to selling pressure as equities could regain their footing on an alternative proposal to take care of distressed assets,' Ichikawa at RBS Securities said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is scheduled to outline the bank rescue plan publicly at 1600 GMT on Tuesday.  March 10-year futures were down 0.14 point at 138.42 after touching 138.25.  The two-year yield rose 1.5 basis points to 0.410 percent .  The five-year yield was unchanged at 0.745 percent after brushing 0.755 percent..  The 10-year yield was flat at 1.305 percent after rising to 1.325 percent.  FIVE-YEAR AUCTION  Midterm JGBs were steady on Tuesday after a 2 trillion yen ($21.86 billion) 0.8 percent coupon five-year auction saw solid demand.  The bid-to-cover ratio, a gauge of demand, dipped to 3.05 from 3.25 at the previous auction in January, but market watchers said the outcome was still satisfactory. 'The fact that the bid-to-cover ratio remains above 3 times despite the recent increase in issuance underlines firm investor demand,' said Katsutoshi Inadome, a fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities.   Japan's Ministry of Finance increased the five-year issuance amount to 2 trillion yen per auction from 1.9 trillion yen starting with the January offering.  The 0.8 percent coupon, up from 0.7 percent at the previous auction, was also seen drawing investors to the new five-year bonds.  Short- to mid-term dated JGBs have been buoyed after Bank of Japan policy board member Atsushi Mizuno suggested last week that the central bank will prevent a rise in term interest rates.  Mizuno said the central bank, which already guides overnight interest rates near zero, should study ways to lower term rates.  Elevated term rates had soured investor sentiment in the money market, which in turn weighed down short- to mid-term dated JGBs. 
