The Westpac-Melbourne Institute consumer unemployment expectations index rose 1.3 per cent to a 26-year high in February, even as interest rates were slashed to 1960s levels and the federal government announced a $42 billion economic stimulus package.  Australia's jobless rate shot up to 4.8 per cent in January, the highest seasonally adjusted level since mid-2006.  Economists expect the jobless rate to hit a decade-high next year as labour demand shrinks.  The consumer unemployment expectations index rose to 183.07 points in February.  This was the highest reading since November 1982, when the index reached 184.1 points amid a year-long recession.  February's reading was also the second highest on record since the series began in 1974, and marked the second consecutive monthly rise in the job insecurity measure.  ANZ senior economist Katie Dean said a slump in labour demand at the end of 2008 was likely to force up unemployment later this year. 'Labour demand weakened significantly in the final months of 2008 - that would lead to eventual job losses in the next couple of months,' Dean said. Westpac expects the jobless rate to rise to 5.3 per cent by June, before climbing to a seven-year high of 6.3 per cent by Christmas.  Westpac economists said a contraction in labour demand in 2010 would push the jobless rate up to 7.3 per cent, a level last seen in early 1999.  Annual employment growth was expected to slow to zero by mid-year, and contract by 1.1 per cent come December.  January's jobs growth pace of 0.9 per cent was the slowest in five years, ABS data released on Thursday showed.  The National Australia Bank's business conditions survey for the December quarter also forecast a rise in unemployment in 2009 as the Australian economy went into recession.  The latest Australian Bureau of Statistics data showed 1,200 jobs were created in January.  But the ANZ employment series, also for January, showed newspaper and internet job advertisements declined for the ninth straight month.  Westpac said recession-level fears of rising joblessness justified the need for aggressive interest rate cuts and federal government handouts to boost spending in a flagging economy.  The latest jobless fear survey of 1,200 respondents was taken in February after the Reserve Bank of Australia slashed interest rates by 100 basis points to a 45-year low of 3.25 per cent.
