The British Pound may see selling pressure in European hours if minutes from the last meeting of the Bank of England hint at a dovish bias for the March interest announcement. Overnight trading saw Australian retail sales improve in the fourth quarter, bolstered by monetary and fiscal stimulus, though Westpacs leading index continued to point to recession in 2009.  Key Overnight Developments Australian Retail Sales Improve But Leading Index Points to Recession Euro Falls Most in 5 Weeks Against US Dollar as Traders Dump Risky Assets  Critical Levels   The Euro consolidated losses near the 1.26 mark in overnight trading having sold off to test as low as 1.2561 in New York hours. The single currency lost -1.7% to the greenback, the largest intraday drop in 5 weeks, as stock markets compounded losses and sent traders scrambling to the safe haven of the Dollar. The British Pound was little changed, oscillating around the 1.4230 level. .Asia Session HighlightsAustralias Westpac Leading Index fell -0.4% in December, the second consecutive month in negative territory. The index is comprised of eight separate gauges of performance that look to gauge the economys trajectory over the coming three to nine months. The measures annualized growth rate slipped to -1.2% suggesting the antipodean nation is on pace to see its first recession since 1991. Retail Sales added 0.8% in the fourth quarter, the most in a year, as a series of aggressive interest rate cuts (totaling 4% since September), a fiscal stimulus package worth nearly A$88 billion, and a sharp drop in oil prices (down close to 70% since peaking in July) all helped support spending amid the global slowdown. Spending is likely to falter through 2009 however as  to the lowest level in 4 months while the  in January to issue the largest monthly gain since February 2001. The markets continue to expect the Reserve Bank of Australia to deliver at least a 0.50% interest rate cut in March and 75-100 basis points in total easing over the next 12 months.  Euro Session: What to Expect  Minutes from the last policy meeting of the Bank of England top the economic calendar in European hours. Bank Governor Mervyn King recently noted that f as the economy slogs in a deep recession and CPI falls below the central banks target of 2% by the end of May. Still, overnight index swaps show the markets are pricing in no change in borrowing costs in March. A particularly dovish tone to todays release may well upset these expectations, weighing on the Pound as markets re-price the yield outlook.  To contact Ilya regarding this or other articles he has authored, please email him at ispivak at dailyfx dot com.
