Page 1 of 2  Reserve Bank of Australia governor Glenn Stevens says the near-term outlook for the nation is weak and that the RBA has more interest rate ammunition to use if needed to protect the economy from the global downturn, but he does not expect the economic downturn to be a deep one.  Appearing before the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Economics, Mr Steven said no policy response could have prevented the economy from feeling the near-term effects of the global economic crisis. 'We are being effected by the global downturn and we cannot realistically expect other than weak conditions, at least in the first part of 2009,' Mr Stevens said in Canberra this morning. 'This is a weak near-term outlook to be sure.''  More rate ammunition available  He said Australia was well-placed to navigate its way through the economic downturn, but said the RBA was prepared to lower interest rates further if necesssary. 'If there is a need to use more interest rate stimulus, and if that's prudent, then we can,'' Mr Stevens said after the testimony in response to questions. 'I don't want to try to steer expectations about that particularly today. It's just that we have scope to do more if more is needed.''   The RBA has delivered 400 basis points of interest rate cuts since September last year, lowering the cash rate to a 45-year low of 3.25%.  But Mr Stevens pointed it was unlikely the cash rate will drop to 0%. 'It is not my present expectation we're going to find ourselves at nothing.' Australia's cash rate of 3.25% is one of the higher cash interest rates among developed countries. The US federal funds rates is in a target range of zero to 0.25% and Japan's benchmark rate is 0.1%.  Small cut expected  ANZ economist Katy Dean characterised the speech as 'relatively upbeat''. 'Crucially, the governor has indicated that the RBA has already factored in a lot of bad news into their aggressive actions thus far, so they won't necessarily respond to poor data in the months ahead.'' 'The governor's relatively upbeat view certainly suggests the pace of easing will be more measured from here,'' said Ms Dean in a note to clients. 'A pause in March appears to be a significant possibility.'' 'Certainly if the bank cuts rates, it will be modest - 25 basis points, or 50 basis points at the most.''  Dollar rises on remarks  Indeed, currency markets pared back expectations of an aggressive interest rate cut next month following Mr Stevens's remarks and pushed the Australian dollar higher.  The dollar hit a high of $US0.6484 on the comments, up from $US0.6442 before the speech, but eased back to $US0.6457 in late morning trade.  Investors pared March rate cut expectations. Markets are now betting rates will fall by around 50 basis points next month, having seen a move of over 60 basis points before the speech, and fall by 85 basis points by the end of the year, from 89 basis points, according to Credit Suisse. 'I'd rather not pick a number as the resting point. The markets are currently toying with something like 2% or 2.25%. I have no particular desire today to either encourage or or disabuse them,'' Mr Stevens said.  Signs of improvement in China  Mr Stevens said there were tentative signs of a turn for the better in China's economy, although it was too soon to know if that would continue. Continued 10:39am Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens says there is no strong case for ... 10:39am Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens says there is no strong case for banks to impose fees on people who use ATMs of a bank other than their own.
