CANBERRA, Feb 13 (Reuters) - The Australian government left open the possibility of further changes to its A$42 billion ($27.4 billion) stimulus plan on Friday, a day after parliament rejected it and heightened fears of an economic recession.   The upper house rejected the package on Thursday after an independent senator, whose vote was needed to ensure its passage, sided with the opposition, complaining the government had refused to give ground on one small aspect of the plan.  Now it is up to the government to either stand its ground, and seek to sway its opponents by painting them as wreckers of the economy, or meet the hold-out senator's demand. 'We are prepared to act in the national interest. That's what governs the fiscal stimulus package in the first place,' Treasurer Wayne Swan told Australian radio as the government reintroduced the same package back into the senate. Its unclear as yet when the upper house will vote on the package. 'We have been in discussions with the minor parties over a period of time and we will continue to discuss matters in a constructive way and if we can resolve them in the national interest, we will do that. 'The government is very keen to see this legislation passed,' Swan added. Analysts say the measures are expected to pass eventually, but the delay in distributing cash handouts worth A$12.7 billion could add to the case for a further interest rate cut to stem the fallout in Australia from the global economic slowdown.  Late last year, the government announced a A$10 billion stimulus package which possibly helped Australia skirt a recession. But six of its major trading partners are in recession and that is threatening to leave hundred of Australians jobless.  Markets are already pricing in a further 50 basis points cut in the cash rate. Just last week, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) slashed the rate by 100 basis points to a record low of 3.25 percent. The latest cut brought its easing since September to a massive 4 percentage points. 
