Australia may get lucky and avoid a recession in 2009, although some analysts say possible further downgrades of state sovereign credit ratings could affect confidence in the broader economy.  The world's premier economies of the US, Japan and Germany are already in recession, along with 11 other industrialised countries that contracted last year.  But CommSec chief economist Craig James says Australia could enjoy its 18th consecutive year of growth as big interest rate cuts and Federal Government stimulus programs support the economy.  'While the global downturn is far bigger than the 2001 slowdown, it is not out of the question that Australia could avoid recession yet again,'' Mr James said.  'No other country has received the same economic boost from all three factors - government spending, lower interest rates and a cheaper Aussie dollar.  'But whether meeting the technical definition of recession or not, the economy faces significant challenges over 2009.''  The Reserve Bank of Australia has cut interest rates by 400 basis points since September, taking the cash rate to a 45-year low of 3.25%.  The Federal Government also unveiled two economic stimulus programs, worth a combined $52 billion, to boost infrastructure and consumer spending.  However, ICAP senior economist Adam Carr said the downgrade of Queensland's credit rating to AA-plus, from AAA, by Standard &amp; Poor's last week was likely to affect the view investors took of Australian state governments trying to raise debt finance.  ''(There is a) good chance that it will be followed by more downgrades for other states,'' he said. 'It's at least got to increase that likelihood.''  Until recently, Queensland was one of the biggest beneficiaries of the commodities boom but now it joins Tasmania as the only other state not to have a AAA rating.  Analysts expect NSW also eventually to have its credit rating downgraded because of its negative outlook.  Standard and Poor's cited the deteriorating budgetary performance of Queensland flowing from declining revenues, including mining royalties as its reason for the downgrade.  CommSec's Mr James said Australian banks were in a better financial position than the US and Europe, and had a higher exposure to the domestic market.  'Australian banks are still recording solid profits at time when overseas banks are reporting losses,'' he said.  Mr James also said Australian house prices were unlikely to fall.  'Despite gloom and doom predictions, house prices haven't slumped in Australia,'' he said. 'Quite simply, population has been rising in recent years but supply of housing hasn't kept pace, leading to an under-supply of housing.''  A recession is often defined as two consecutive quarters of economic contraction, which in Australia last occurred in 1991.  
