By a staff reporter, with AAP and Reuters The latest private capital expenditure data points to positive gross fourth domestic product (GDP) figures and eases pressure on the central bank to continue aggressively slashing interest rates. But analysts widely expect capital expenditure figures to weaken going forward. New private capital expenditure rose 6.0 per cent in real terms, seasonally adjusted, in the December quarter, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) said. The median market forecast was for a fall of 3.0 per cent. The fifth estimate of expenditure for 2008/09 is $98.145 billion, which is 14.3 per cent higher than the fifth estimate for 2007/08. The first estimate of expenditure for 2009/10 is $79.866, which is 0.6 per cent higher than the first estimate of 2008/09. Estimates are gathered in a series of seven quarterly surveys, the first in January and February before the start of the financial year in July, and the seventh immediately after the financial year ends. The news comes ahead of the Reserve Bank of Australia's interest rate decision on Tuesday, and GDP figures due for release on Wednesday. 'The pretty strong set of numbers implies a positive GDP reading,' Nomura economist Stephen Roberts said. 'The Reserve Bank of Australia is likely to cut rates in March but it will probably be a small cut of 25 to 50 basis points,' Mr Roberts said. While the figures offer hope of a small rise in fourth quarter GDP, the outlook for capital expenditure going forward may not be so positive. 'Further out its clear businesses are paring back their spending plans, and that process is just warming up,' Macquarie interest rate strategist Rory Robertson said. 'With equity market at new lows and the world enveloped in doom and gloom, spending is almost certain to be cut back further,' Mr Robertson said. TD Securities strategist Joshua Williamson agreed. 'This (the ABS data) means that business investments have yet to react to the crisis,' Mr Williamson said. 'This poses some risks of a reduced interest rate cut next week, and even the possibility that the central bank will keep rates on hold,' he said. 'But I still think that business investments overall will fall about 20 per cent this year given persistent weakness in the trade-exposed sectors.'
