Rates going down ... the RBA has cut rates by one percentage point to 3.25 per cent / Graphic: Eric Auld  The Reserve Bank's interest rate cut intends to help boost business confidence 02/09  Rate relief? ... The Reserve Bank cut interest rates by 100 basis points to 3.25 per cent / Picture: Sam Mooy  Interest rates cut to 3.25pc  Westpac, ANZ pass on full cut  THE Reserve Bank has cut interest rates by 100 basis points to 3.25 per cent, but most homeowners are yet to benefit as banks hold out on passing the move on.  Citing a 'significant deterioration' in world economic conditions since late last year, the RBA this afternoon reduced interest rates to their lowest point in 45 years.  Out of the big banks, Westpac and ANZ have passed on the full 100 point cut. Commonwealth Bank and NAB said rates were currently under review.  Treasurer Wayne Swan said other banks should follow Westpac and ANZ's lead.  'We do expect other banks to pass this rate cut on in a timely way,' Mr Swan told Parliament.  The cut in rates comes on the same day the Government announced a massive $42 billion stimulus package in a bid to kickstart the economy.  The Government said it expected economic growth to be just 1 per cent in 2008-09, slowing to a mere 0.75 per cent in 2009/10.  Commenting on the RBA's rate decision, Mr Swan said the central bank and the Government were working together in the face of a global recession.  'Because of the global financial crisis and the global recession it has caused, we need fiscal policy and monetary policy working strongly together, and they are, they are working in tandem,' he said.  RBA governor Glenn Stevens said the board took into account the package of measures announced by the Government earlier today.  'The combination of expansionary monetary and fiscal policies now in place will help to cushion the Australian economy from the contractionary forces coming from abroad,' he said.  The one percentage point cut will save home owners an average of $186 a month in mortgage repayments, if banks pass on the full reduction.  Economists had expected a cut of at least 75 basis points given the rapid deterioration in the global economy since the central bank last cut the rate in December.  The RBA has cut the rate by a massive 400 basis points since September last year in attempts to protect the economy from sinking into recession.  With the Herald Sun and AAP  
