TOKYO, Feb 10 (Reuters) - Japanese government bond futures slipped on Tuesday as Tokyo stocks rose, but losses were trimmed as risk appetite was dulled by a report that raised doubts about the effectiveness of a closely watched U.S. bank bailout plan.   CNBC reported on its website that the Obama administration's bailout plan would include a new form of 'bad bank' combining public and private funds. Earlier, CNBC had reported that the U.S Treasury had dropped plans to establish a bad bank to buy distressed assets from commercial banks.  That rekindled risk aversion, taking the wind out of Tokyo's Nikkei stock average, which gave back a bulk of its gains after starting trade sharply higher.  Risk appetite was also dampened after Japan's Nikkei business daily said that Russia would request negotiations with European and other foreign banks to postpone repayment on up to $400 billion of its private sector debt. 'If the bad bank plan is fully withdrawn, then that would be positive for bonds,' said Tatsuo Ichikawa, a senior fixed-income strategist at RBS Securities.  But analysts suggested it was too early to judge the longer term implications of media reports on the U.S. bad bank plan. 'Bonds could still be exposed to selling pressure as equities could regain their footing on an alternative proposal to take care of distressed assets,' Ichikawa said. U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is scheduled to outline the bank rescue plan publicly at 1600 GMT on Tuesday.  March 10-year futures were down 0.09 point at 138.47 after touching 138.25.  The 10-year yield was up 0.5 basis point at 1.310 percent after rising to 1.325 percent.  The five-year yield declined 0.5 basis point to 0.740 percent . The two-year yield edged up 0.5 basis point to 0.400 percent.  The debt market was also underpinned on Tuesday by fair prospects for a 2 trillion yen ($21.86 billion) five-year JGB auction.  The Ministry of Finance raised the coupon to 0.8 percent from 0.7 percent at the previous tender in January. The auction results are due at 0345 GMT.  Short- to mid-term dated JGBs have been buoyed as sentiment was boosted after Bank of Japan policy board member Atsushi Mizuno suggested last week that the central bank will prevent a rise in term interest rates.  Mizuno said that the central bank, which already guides overnight interest rates near zero, should study ways to lower interbank term rates.  Elevated term rates had soured investor sentiment in the money market, which in turn weighed down short- to mid-term dated JGBs.  Market players said dealers were confident the auction would proceed smoothly after witnessing domestic banks buying mid-term dated JGBs the previous day ahead of the tender. 
