LONDON, Feb 25 (Reuters) - Sterling fell broadly on Wednesday, retreating from its highest this year against the yen as data showed the UK economy shrank an unrevised 1.5 percent in the last quarter of 2008, confirming deep recession.  Losses steepened after the head of sovereign ratings at Standard &amp; Poor's said he expected more downgrades than upgrades this year compared with a year earlier. [nLP421693] The S&amp;P comments rattled investors, taking tentative risk seeking off the table as euro zone government bonds rallied and Euro futures pointed to a weak U.S. stock market open.  Bank of England policymaker Kate Barker later said British economic growth may not restart until the end of 2009 but sterling's weakness should help exporters. 'We really seem to have seen reversals to what we saw yesterday,' said Steve Barrow, head of G10 research at Standard Bank in London. 'We are seeing some big give backs across the board, sterling/yen, euro/sterling, and sterling/dollar.' Also adding to weaker sterling sentiment, the head of Britain's Debt Management Office said there are signs sterling's weakness is encouraging some overseas investors to buy gilts. [nLAI000108]  By 1550 GMT, the pound was down 1.3 percent on the day at $1.4283 , down sharply from $1.4585 just after the GDP figures. The euro was up 0.3 percent at 88.98 pence.  The pound was down 1.5 percent at 138.37 yen, having earlier jumped to 141.81 -- its highest this year . Pressure on Japan's economy was compounded earlier by data showing exports plunged a record 45.7 percent in January from a year earlier and the recent breakdown in the yen's correlation with stock market moves. [ID:nT49636]  The UK's Office for National Statistics said fourth-quarter GDP shrank by 1.9 percent on the year, revised down from the initial -1.8 percent reading and confronting investors again with the reality of Britain entering a sharp recession. [nLP311970]  The numbers were also seen as unlikely to alter expectations for additional UK monetary easing in March, with UK borrowing costs already at a record low 1 percent. 'It's slightly stronger than expected, but just confirming the economy is in a deep recession,' said Nicola Chadwick, international economist at CBA in London. 'We certainly can't take any comfort from the numbers.' (Reporting by Veronica Brown; Editing by Chris Pizzey and Jason Neely) 
