One in five businesses surveyed in the leadup to the Government's jobs summit are preparing to cut staff or reduce their hours.  The bleak finding in a Business NZ survey, just days out from Prime Minister John Key's summit in Auckland, coincides with evidence that workers are increasingly fearful of keeping their jobs.  A separate survey by the New Zealand Business Council for Sustainable Development showed low-paid workers were the most worried - 39 per cent think they will lose their jobs.  But even the highest-paid workers are not immune 32 per cent of people surveyed in the $100,000 to $150,000 income bracket worry they will soon be out of work.  Officials have been working around the clock to prepare for Friday's summit. Mr Key was in a meeting last night with some of New Zealand's top business leaders as they ran a final ruler over proposals that will be canvassed on the day.  The summit will bring together business people, mayors, union leaders and others such as Reserve Bank governor Alan Bollard.  New Zealand Exchange chief executive Mark Weldon, who is chairing the summit, said it was an opportunity to get the Government, unions and business together to create some 'real win-wins'. The summit received a much-needed shot in the arm yesterday after ASB Bank announced a special $1 billion 'job creation' fund that offered cheap loans to businesses to help create new jobs or hold on to staff.  Chief executive Charles Pink said it was an acknowledgement that more tough times were ahead. 'We certainly think the economic conditions are worsening and that is why we've come forward ... we in the private sector need to do our bit to respond and this is ASB doing its best.' Mr Key said the move was the 'creative' response the Government was looking for from the private sector.  Official Treasury forecasts say unemployment will hit 7.5 per cent. But unofficial forecasts predict the rate will rise much higher than that. A Business NZ survey of 647 companies yesterday suggested an increasing number were already looking to lay off staff.  Thirty-three per cent said they had more staff than needed and, of those, 63 per cent planned either to make staff redundant or reduce their working hours. Just over a third said they were planning to do both. But 70 per cent said they would hold on to staff if the Government offered a wage subsidy.  Fairfax chief executive Joan Withers, one of the summit chairs, said the full effects of the recession were only just starting in New Zealand. The media, at the 'bleeding edge' of the economy, had seen it as job advertisements started drying up about 12 months ago. 'There is no good news in 2009.
