Lending to Australian consumers and businesses shrank last month for the first time since 1992, raising the likelihood that the Reserve Bank will make another big interest rate cut later this week.  Total credit provided by financial companies fell 0.3pc in December from the previous month, according to Reserve Bank of Australia figures out today.  ''The RBA will see this as another reason to continue its aggressive monetary policy,'' said Nik Bhattacharyya associate economist at Moody's Economy.com.  Economists had been expecting a 0.5pc month-on-month gain. From a year earlier, total credit was 6.7pc higher, compared with an expectation of a 7.5pc increase - the weakest growth pace in 15 years.   A year earlier, lending was expanding at a 16pc clip.  The surprise slump in lending fell largely in the business sector, which fell 1.1pc. Consumer borrowing dropped by a similar amount as shoppers cut back on credit card use.  The Federal Government has warned local banks may need help in taking up some of the loans to corporations that may not be rolled over as foreign banks retreat amid a global crunch crunch.   Prime Minister Kevin Rudd has flagged a $4 billion fund to help support lending to the commercial property industry alone.'Today's data confirm the credit rationing and tightening up in lending standards of recent months,' said RBC Capital Market's Su-Lin Ong said in note to clients.  The Reserve Bank board meets on Tuesday, with financial markets expecting a full percentage point cut to 3.25pc, as the central bank battles to prevent the economy tipping into a recession.  The Australian dollar retreated after the release of the credit figures, trading at about US64.7c in recent trade, down about 0.2 US cents.  Housing credit rose 0.4pc in December, and by 7.6pc over the year, seasonally adjusted.  Although housing finance continued to expand, Moody's Mr Bhattacharyya said the credit squeeze may trigger deflationary pressures, particularly in property prices, already advanced in the US and UK.  ''The major worry is that private sector credit might dry up and could have a deflationary effect on property prices,'' he said.  If home buyers can't take out the loans required by property prices, home sellers will eventually have to lower prices, Mr Bhattacharyya said.  ''The RBA and government have both been trying to prevent property prices from falling to avoid the situation that's happened in the US and UK, where property price inflation has weighed on the greater economy. And on household spending.''  The rise in housing credit reflected in part the $10.4 billion stimulus package targeting the housing industry, which plays a crucial role in labour and credit markets.'Housing credit is no doubt being bouyed by vastly improved housing affordability as well as the expanded first-home owners grant,'' ANZ economist Katie Dean wrote in a note to clients.  Ms Dean said the overall data was 'broadly consistent'' with the domestic slowdown in the last three months of 2008.'This slowing is consistent with - so far - a mild recession, rather than the calamity facing the US and the UK.'Other personal credit was down 1.1pc in December, falling 5.2pc compared with a year earlier and the worst result since May 1992 when Australia was recovering from the last recession.  Business credit fell 1.1pc in the month, and increased 8pc over the year.  RBC's Ms Ong said the drop in business loans indicate a mix of dwindling supply and wilting demand for debt.  Although business lending was subdued for a lot of last year, 'today's outcome was particularly sobering and most likely reflects both sides of the supply and demand equation for credit.' 'Under pressure and facing a squeeze on margins, business are clearly not expanding and have little appetite for debt and growth,' said Ms Ong. 'The impact upon output and employment has yet to be fully felt.' Analysts expect the employment rate - currently at 4.5pc - to creep up this year, as the gears of the economy slow in sync with dropping demand and falling levels of lending. Economists are predicting joblessness to rise as high as 9% by 2010.  Consumer prices fell in the December quarter from the previous three months, the first quarter-on-quarter slide in prices since 1997, the Australian Bureau of Statistics reported this week.  Separately, economists at JPMorgan lowered their 2009 GDP pc increase expected earlier.'Deteriorating conditions offshore and the worsening credit crunch point to a deeper Australian recession than previously forecast,' economist Stephen Walter said in a note to clients.  czappone@fairfax.com.au 
