SINGAPORE, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has warned the trade-dependent island state to brace for a worsening global outlook, which could cause the economy to shrink by more than 5 percent this year. 'Our GDP growth is forecast to be between -2 and -5 percent. It could be worse if the global economy worsens, even lower than -5 percent is possible,' the Business Times newspaper quoted Lee as telling white-collar professionals and unionists on Sunday.  The Singapore government has lowered economic forecasts three times in the past few months as global economic conditions deteriorated, saying the economy was facing its worst-ever recession.  It forecast a contraction of between 2 and 5 percent just a month ago, down from a forecast range of minus 1 percent to plus 2 percent in November.  Like other export-reliant Asian economies, tiny Singapore has been pummeled by a collapse in consumer demand as the global economy slows sharply. Its exports, seen as a barometer for world demand, slid a record 35 percent in January from a year ago.  Lee said in January the government's S$20.5 billion ($13.41 billion) budget stimulus package would not immediately lift the country out of its worst ever recession.  In his speech on Sunday, Lee said the next six months would be tough for Singapore as economic fallout in Eastern Europe could worsen the global recession. 'It is a big problem for the European banks who are exposed to Eastern Europe, it is a problem for Asia too because the same European banks are very active and big lenders in Asia,' the Strait Times newspaper quoted him as saying. 'So let us prepare for a very tough year ahead and let us be psychologically ready to think in terms of several slow years after that.' Analysts said Lee's projection was a realistic assessment of the current global financial turmoil. 'He is being conservative and it is the right thing to do,' said Citibank economist Kit Wei Zheng, who agreed with the PM's latest comments.  But financial markets shrugged off Lee's warning.  The Singapore dollar gained 0.5 percent on the day to 1.5217 against the U.S. dollar by 0353 GMT, as the U.S. dollar tumbled on a report that the U.S. government could end up holding up to 40 percent of Citigroup's stock.  Singapore's main stock index was up 0.6 percent by midday, but is still down around 9 percent so far this year, after losing nearly half of its value in 2008.  The Singapore government in its budget tapped reserves for the first time to pay for the stimulus package to help companies and jobs.  Lee said the next two quarters would be 'especially tough and let's fasten seat belts'.  
