: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  A NEW world order prevails. You know the dominant paradigm has turned upside-down when our political leaders and most economists are arguing not so much over whether we need to send the Budget into the red, but rather over the scale and direction of that deficit spending.  Here we really need to put a few things into context.  First, much has been made of the headline figure of $200 billion of debt (up from the existing $75 billion) that the Rudd Government wants parliament to give it discretionary approval to borrow.  This does not mean the deficit will reach $200 billion. All such approval would do is give the Government the capacity to raise that level of debt should it be needed, in the same way many highly profitable companies use borrowings to invest in expansion.  Even in times of surplus, governments still borrow - even if only to keep alive a market for our bond issues.  And even if the Government's $42 billion stimulus package passes the Senate intact, the worst our deficit is forecast (at this point) to reach is 2.9 per cent of GDP.  This compares to a 3.9 per cent of GDP deficit under the Keating government in the early '90s recession, when the global outlook was nowhere near as grim as it is today.  When Australia does go to international bond markets to raise the cash needed to stimulate our economy, we do so from a position of strength.  Our credit rating is 'AAA' and to the best of my knowledge we have not defaulted on any state or federal debt repayments since the 1930s.  Consider our situation against some of those in the European Union, where deficits are running at banana republic levels.  In 2009, economies such as Ireland, Greece and Italy are expected to run deficits exceeding 50 per cent of GDP. In the case of Italy - which like Australia is a member of the G20 group of nations - its deficit is forecast at 109 per cent of GDP.  In other words, its budget shortfall this year will exceed the output of the country's entire productive capacity.  And this is the point at which Italy and many of its European neighbours enter the downturn with deficits which are already beyond unsustainable, giving them precious little room to move in terms of fiscal policy.  Already the 'spread' - or premium - on government bonds (debt) issued by the high deficit countries in the EU is well above that of countries such as Germany. They are paying more to borrow. This is because purchasers of those bonds demand a huge premium for risk.  And some observers are now factoring in the threat of sovereign risk - that is the possibility that an advanced, first world nation might default on its debt repayments, the sort of scenario that until recently was reserved for areas such as parts of Latin America or the African continent.  There is the danger some European government bond issues may not be completed. Worse, would be default itself.  Should such an event occur it would turn what is a freeze of international credit markets into a meltdown, and wreck the value of the euro in the process, further destabilising a tattered world economy.  Other EU members and the International Monetary Fund would likely intervene with what support they could, but it would be dark days indeed.  Compare that scenario of high risk and high debt and crumbling economies to that of Australia.  We are obviously far from immune, but we are so much better placed, as was evidenced last week by the huge appetite for Westpac Bank's bond issue in the Japanese market (the first of its kind since the collapse of Lehmann Brothers in September).  Times might be tough, but our banks are healthy, unemployment is still relatively low and in budgetary terms we are only dipping our feet into a pool of red ink rather than plunging head first into an ocean of it.  
