Page 1 of 2  An upbeat assessment of the local economy from Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens had lowered the prospects of big cuts this year, economists say.  Appearing before the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Economics, Mr Stevens said Australia was well-placed to ride out the global financial and economic crisis, particularly because monetary policy was working much more effectively. 'There are reasonable grounds at this stage to think that the Australian economy will come through this very difficult episode, certainly not unscathed but well-placed to benefit from a renewed expansion,'' Mr Stevens told the committee in Canberra. 'Things will be difficult over the next year, but as I have said before, the long-run prospects for Australia have not deteriorated by as much as we may all be feeling just now.''  Lower expectations  Currency markets pared back expectations of an aggressive interest rate cut next month following Mr Stevens's remarks and pushed the Australian dollar higher.  Investors pared March rate cut expectations. Markets are now betting rates will fall by around 50 basis points next month, having seen a move of over 60 basis points before the speech, and fall by 85 basis points by the end of the year, from 89 basis points, according to Credit Suisse. 'I'd rather not pick a number as the resting point. The markets are currently toying with something like 2% or 2.25%. I have no particular desire today to either encourage or or disabuse them,'' Mr Stevens said.  Affirmative tone  HSBC chief economist John Edwards said there was 'no mistaking RBA governor Glenn Stevens' affirmative tone'' in assessing the Australian economic outlook in his opening statement. 'The testimony strengthens our view that the RBA will leave the 3.25% cash rate unchanged in March, and that 3.25% may well prove the low,'' Dr Edwards said in a research note.  Mr Stevens told the committee the RBA would be tracking the economic data flow in the period ahead. 'In evaluating the information we receive in the months ahead, our task will be to distinguish between that which confirms the anticipated trends to which we have already responded, and that which tells us something genuinely new about the prospects for demand and prices over the medium term,'' Mr Stevens said.  Dr Edwards said the comments suggested the RBA regarded the cuts already made were appropriate for the current circumstances. 'The RBA will only need to cut more if things get worse than it now expects,'' Dr Edwards said.  Smaller cuts ahead  St George Bank chief economist Besa Deda said rates were likely to fall to a record low of 2.25% in the current easing cycle.  At this level, rates would still be higher than the US federal funds rates target range of zero to 0.25% and Japan's benchmark rate of 0.1%. 'We continue to look for more RBA rate cuts in coming months, but believe that the size of the cuts will be smaller and there may be some pauses between meetings,'' St George's Ms Deda said. 'RBA governor Stevens indicated that the central bank will ease rates again if needed. 'Australia cannot remain immune to the severe synchronised downturn in the world economy, but RBA stimulus is needed to help cushion the slowdown underway in the Australian economy.'' Continued
