The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) is universally tipped to slash the official interest rate this week to 1960s levels as it continues to try to mitigate the impact of worsening global economic conditions. Nine economists, a majority, expect the cash interest rate to be cut by 100 basis points, following the RBA's February 3 board meeting, which would take the cash rate to a 45-year low of 3.25 per cent - its lowest since 1964 when regulators set it at 3.18 per cent. The remainder expect a 75 basis points reduction. If the commercial banks match a 100 basis point move, home borrowers on an average $250,000 mortgage would save $162 a month as their repayments fell 10 per cent to $1,458. The cash rate has already been slashed by 300 basis points since September last year, reversing a dozen rate rises between 2002 and early 2008. And by the end of September 2009, the cash rate could hit a record low of two per cent, five economists say. Westpac senior economist Justin Smirk said the RBA would have to slash interest rates by 100 basis points this week to avert a prolonged recession, in concert with federal government stimulus programs. 'It's about ensuring the economy isn't going into a meaningful contraction,' he said. UBS economist George Tharenou said the RBA would slash interest rates more aggressively in 2009 than it did during the last recession, starting with a 75 basis point cut this week. 'We have taken the view global deflation is more of a threat in 2009 than the early 1990s recession,' he said. The International Monetary Fund expects the world economy to grow by just 0.5 per cent in 2009 as the US, Europe and Japan contract, and growth in China slows. AMP Capital Investors chief economist Shane Oliver, who is betting on a 75 basis point cut, said fears of high inflation have given way to RBA concerns about a prolonged recession. 'We have seen a turnaround from an obsession with inflation to an obsession with depression,' he said. 'The main reason is the global growth outlook has deteriorated even further from the last [board] meeting in December.' RBC Capital Markets senior economist Su-Lin Ong, who is backing a bigger one percentage point move, said a slowdown in Australia's key Asian trading partners made the case for a series of rate cuts. 'With the bulk of Australia's key export destinations in recession, that is yet to filter through to the economy,' she said. 'We're poised to see a large drop in the terms of trade: that's going to have implications for income and employment.' TD Securities senior strategist Joshua Williamson said falling business investment would push up the jobless rate from 4.5 per cent at present, which made the case for a 100 basis point cut on Tuesday. 'The one defining theme of the economy in 2009 will be a sustained rise in unemployment: we think seven per cent by the end of this year,' he said. Nomura Australia chief economist Stephen Roberts said with leading economic indicators on employment and home building pointing to a downturn, the RBA would cut interest rates by another 75 basis points in February. 'With complete confidence, they can see inflation marching well inside the target band in 2009, and as a result monetary policy can focus on the real downside risk to the economy,' he said. Headline inflation fell 0.3 per cent in the December quarter, marking the biggest quarterly fall since 1997. Consumer price index (CPI) and underlying inflation, which is based on the RBA's preferred measures, both fell closer to the central bank's two to three per cent annual target band in late 2008. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) slashed interest rates by a surprise 150 basis points last week, taking the cash rate to a record low 3.5 per cent, but Societe Generale chief economist Glenn Maguire said the RBA would be unlikely to exceed a one percentage point move in February. 'The RBNZ has a slightly longer gap between meetings and the extent of the fiscal stimulus isn't as great in New Zealand,' he said from Hong Kong.
