The Australian dollar opened marginally weaker as more bad news about the European banking sector dented risk appetite for higher-yielding currencies.  At 0700 AEDT, the Australian dollar was trading at 64.88/92 US cents, down from Monday's close of 64.92/95 US cents. It was buying 45.6 pence, 50.8 euro cents and 59.6 yen.  During the offshore session, the currency moved between a low of 64.76 US cents, and a high of 65.30 US cents.  The Australian dollar moved within a tight range overnight as the US market was closed for the President's Day holiday, with traders taking direction from Europe, instead.  ANZ senior markets dealer Alex Sinton said media reports about possible losses at the UK's Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) weighed on risk appetite.  ''The risk appetite has been lowered by these stories,'' he said from Auckland.  The Sunday Times of London said a report at the end of February was expected to show further losses at RBS of 28 billion pounds ($60.84 billion).  The report said the bank also had considered sacking 20,000 staff.  The British pound sterling fell against the US dollar during offshore trade, another factor denting the Australian unit, after Bank of England (BoE) deputy governor Charles Bean told a farmers union conference that inflation would run ''well below'' its 2% target in the medium term.  His remarks were seen as a sign that UK interest rates, now at 1%, would be cut at the next BoE meeting in March.  The Australian dollar was expected to trade between 64.76 US cents and 65.85 US cents on Tuesday as traders overlooked the minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) February meeting.  Interest rates were cut by a full percentage point this month to a 45-year low of 3.25%, with the RBA then saying little about the size of future rate moves.  Mr Sinton said recent RBA speeches had already convinced the market about the need for more rate cuts.  ''Your (RBA) governor (Glenn Stevens) made it clear in a speech last week that he was pretty much talking about the global situation,'' Mr Sinton said.  
