THE Reserve Bank has held out the possibility of further interest rate cuts in response to the deepening global crisis.  The bank will be guided both by the prospects for economic recovery later this year and by the trends in the short-term economic statistics.   The minutes of the Reserve Bank's meeting two weeks ago show the economy is expected to weaken over coming months, despite the extent of the rate cuts and the Government's fiscal stimulus. 'This stimulus would take time to be effective and could be expected to have only a modest effect on the near-term outlook in Australia,' the minutes report. 'Given the speed at which the global contraction had occurred, short-term prospects were thus still for weakness in demand and output.' Following its 100-basis-point interest rate cut two weeks ago, which lowered the official interest rate to 3.25 per cent, Reserve Bank governor Glenn Stevens emphasised the size of the rate cuts since September last year, saying it would help to 'cushion the Australian economy from the contractionary forces coming from abroad'. Many in financial markets interpreted this comment as suggesting the Reserve Bank saw little need to cut rates further.   While the minutes repeated the comment, adding that the stimulus should establish the conditions for a recovery in demand later this year, they indicated this was by no means certain. 'Assessments of those medium-term prospects, as well as the course of short-term data, would be important to future policy decisions,' the minutes say. In Reserve Bank parlance, to say that interest rate decisions are 'data dependent' means that the bank stands poised to cut rates quickly in the face of adverse figures.   ANZ senior economist Katie Dean said the bank's stance, 'leaves the door open for the RBA to pursue further (pre-emptive) aggressive rate cuts in the short-term'. The minutes emphasise the 'very weak' outlook for the global economy, although they say Australia's economy has been 'more resilient' than other economies.   The board's next meeting, on March 3, is likely to be influenced by the much sharper than expected fall in Japan's economy in the December quarter, with GDP falling at an annual rate of 12.7 per cent, and also by the increasingly gloomy comments from the Bank of England.   Having forecast last week that the British economy would contract by 4 per cent this year, the bank's chief economist, Charles Bean, said yesterday there was a 75 per cent chance the recession would be even steeper.   ICAP senior economist Adam Carr said there were also growing fears that eastern Europe could spark another round of banking write-offs. 'For a central bank that is targeting sentiment and the impact global economic prospects are having on that, it's all still pretty grim and getting worse,' he said. The Reserve Bank will give further insights to its strategy for fighting the downturn on Friday, when Mr Stevens appears before the House of Representatives economics committee.   Committee chair, Labor backbencher Craig Thompson, said a key topic would be what the Reserve Bank would do to support economic activity as interest rates get closer to zero, as they have in Japan, the US and Britain. 'We want to know what happens after that, if there is a further need for monetary policy to loosen,' he said.
