Article from: AAP  Font size: Decrease Increase  : Email  : Print  THE dollar has opened higher due to a pickup in risk appetite as investors continued to anticipate the positive impact of the US government's fiscal stimulus package.  At 7am AEDT, the dollar was trading at $US0.6783/87, up from yesterday's local close of $US0.6657/62.  It was the strongest start to the local session since January 13, when the unit began the day at $US0.6824/26.  During the overnight session, the local currency moved between a low of $US0.6628 and a high of $US0.6850.  Investors' focused on the latest developments regarding the passage of US president Barack Obama's $US780 billion ($1.15 trillion) fiscal stimulus package through the US Congress during offshore trading, given the lack of any US economic data.  A final vote in the US Senate was expected on tomorrow (AEDT).  Meanwhile, US Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner was due to reveal details of his department's latest measure to deal with toxic assets on financial firms' balance sheets, but the scheduled announcement was pushed back a day.  Bank of New Zealand currency strategist Danica Hampton said the dollar had advanced despite the delay.  'They are hoping that it will be passed and they are just focusing on the positive impact of that and the new bailout package they will have on the financial sector,' Ms Hampton said from Wellington.  'That's just caused widespread euphoria on currency markets.'  Ms Hampton said the US dollar weakened about one per cent on a trade-weighted basis.  'It really is a case of improving risk appetite,' she said.  'The currency has surged massively overnight.'  Although the dollar broke through $US0.6800 to reach its highest level since January 12, the move was not matched by US equity markets.  The three major indices on Wall Street were in the red with less than an hour to trade.  'The fact that the optimism hasn't been shared by the equity markets has really limited the gains,' Ms Hampton said.  The National Australia Bank releases its monthly business survey at 11.30am AEDT on Monday.  Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens will deliver a speech to a conference in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, at 7.45pm AEDT.  Ms Hampton said she expected the dollar to trade at about $US0.6700 during the local trading day.  'It will just be a case of waiting and seeing if this optimism and risk appetite continues,' Ms Hampton said.  
