Lending to Australian consumers and businesses shrank last month for the first time since 1992, raising the likelihood that the Reserve Bank will make another big interest rate cut later this week.  Total credit provided by financial companies fell 0.3pc in December from the previous month, according to Reserve Bank of Australia figures out today.  ''The RBA will see this as another reason to continue its aggressive monetary policy,'' said Nik Bhattacharyya associate economist at Moody's Economy.com.  Economists had been expecting a 0.5pc month-on-month gain. From a year earlier, total credit was 6.7pc higher, compared with an expectation of a 7.5pc increase - the weakest growth pace in 15 years.   A year earlier, lending was expanding at a 16pc clip.  The surprise slump in lending fell largely in the business sector, which fell 1.1pc. Consumer borrowing dropped by a similar amount as shoppers cut back on credit card use.  The Federal Government has warned local banks may need help in taking up some of the loans to corporations that may not be rolled over as foreign banks retreat amid a global crunch crunch.   Prime Minister Kevin Rudd has flagged a $4 billion fund to help support lending to the commercial property industry alone.'Today's data confirm the credit rationing and tightening up in lending standards of recent months,' said RBC Capital Market's Su-Lin Ong said in note to clients.  The Reserve Bank board meets on Tuesday, with financial markets expecting a full percentage point cut to 3.25pc, as the central bank battles to prevent the economy tipping into a recession.  The Australian dollar retreated after the release of the credit figures, trading at about US64.7c in recent trade, down about 0.2 US cents.  Housing credit rose 0.4pc in December, and by 7.6pc over the year, seasonally adjusted.  Although housing finance continued to expand, Moody's Mr Bhattacharyya said the credit squeeze may trigger deflationary pressures, particularly in property prices, already advanced in the US and UK.
