Reserve Bank of Australia governor Glenn Stevens says the near-term outlook for the nation is weak and that the RBA has more interest rate ammunition to use if needed to protect the economy from the global downturn, but he does not expect the economic downturn to be a deep one.  Appearing before the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Economics, Mr Steven said no policy response could have prevented the economy from feeling the near-term effects of the global economic crisis.  'We are being effected by the global downturn and we cannot realistically expect other than weak conditions, at least in the first part of 2009,' Mr Stevens said in Canberra this morning. 'This is a weak near-term outlook to be sure.''  More rate ammunition available  Mr Stevens said the large reduction in interest rates, the fiscal stimulus in Australia and a lower exchange rate will work to support demand 'increasingly so as the year goes on''.  He said Australia was well-placed to navigate its way through the economic downturn, but said the RBA was prepared to lower interest rates further if necesssary.  'If there is a need to use more interest rate stimulus, and if that's prudent, then we can,'' Mr Stevens said after the testimony in response to questions. 'I don't want to try to steer expectations about that particularly today. It's just that we have scope to do more if more is needed.''  The RBA has delivered 400 basis points of interest rate cuts since September last year, lowering the cash rate to a 45-year low of 3.25%.  But Mr Stevens pointed it was unlikely the cash rate will drop to 0%. 'It is not my present expectation we're going to find ourselves at nothing.'  Australia's cash rate of 3.25% is one of the higher cash interest rates among developed countries. The US federal funds rates is in a target range of zero to 0.25% and Japan's benchmark rate is 0.1%.  Dollar rises on remarks  Currency markets pared back expectations of an aggressive interest rate cut next month following Mr Stevens's remarks.  The dollar hit a high of $US0.6471 on the comments, up from $US0.6442 before the speech and up from $US0.6419 seen here late on Thursday.  Investors pared March rate cut expectations, with interbank futures falling 0.08 points to 97.70. Markets are now betting rates will fall by around 50 basis points next month, having seen a move of over 50 basis points before the speech, and fall to 2.25% by the middle of the year.  'I'd rather not pick a number as the resting point. The markets are currently toying with something like 2% or 2.25%. I have no particular desire today to either encourage or or disabuse them,'' Mr Stevens said.  Signs of improvement in China  Mr Stevens said there were tentative signs of a turn for the better in China's economy, although it was too soon to know if that would continue.  'China's emergence, for example, has not finished. It has years to run and Australia will benefit from it,'' he said. 'We should not lose sight of that or other positives.  He said Australia's terms of trade look like falling 20% over the next year or so, although they were still historically high.  After giving an opening statement to the house economics committee, Mr Stevens will answer questions until around midday.  The RBA chief said Australia was well-placed to survive the global financial crisis.  'So there are reasonable grounds at this stage to think that the Australian economy will come through this very difficult episode certainly not unscathed, but well placed to benefit from a renewed expansion,'' Mr Stevens said. 'Things will be difficult over the next year. Continued  
