SYDNEY, Feb 20 (Reuters) - Australia's central bank has the ammunition to cut interest rates further in coming months if global economic and financial conditions worsened, its governor said on Friday.   In semi-annual testimony to Parliament, Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) Governor Glenn Stevens said the near-term outlook for the economy was weak, although he hoped the current downturn was not a deep one. 'If there is a need to use more interest rate stimulus, and if that's prudent, then we can,' Stevens told lawmakers. 'I don't want to try to steer expectations about that particularly today. It's just that we have scope to do more if more is needed.' Earlier this month, the central bank cut its key cash rate by 1 percentage point to a record low of 3.25 percent, citing a grim global outlook. That brought total cuts since September to 400 basis points to cushion the economy from the global downturn.  Markets are expecting another 50 basis point cut in March.  Six of Australia's top 10 trading partners are already in recession and growth at home stalled in the third quarter.  The government has weighed in, unveiling a package of A$42 billion ($27 billion) in infrastructure spending and income support earlier this month on top of A$10.4 billion of pump priming late last year.  Despite such a large dose of stimulus, the RBA last week cut its forecasts for growth, expecting the economy to grow by just 0.5 percent in 2009, while unemployment is likely to rise significantly in the months ahead, from the current 4.7 percent. 'We are being affected by the global downturn, and cannot realistically expect other than weak conditions in the first part of 2009,' Stevens said. 'But the very large reduction in interest rates, the lower exchange rate and the major fiscal initiatives will work to support demand, increasingly so as the year goes on. Inflation is likely to continue its moderation and to do so faster than expected six months ago.' Futures markets are expecting the RBA will take the terminal cash rate to around 2.25 percent by the middle of this year. 'I'd rather not pick a number as the resting point. The markets are currently toying with something like two percent or 2.25 percent. I have no particular desire today to either encourage or or disabuse them,' Stevens told lawmakers. 'It is not my present expectation that we would find ourselves at nothing, put it that way.' 
