The Australian dollar opened firmer for the first time in six days as investors sold the Japanese yen on economic worries and pushed the local currency higher. At 0700 AEDT, the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.6451/57, up from Thursday's close of $US0.6421/25. During the offshore session, the Aussie traded between $US0.6415 and $US0.6523. Bank of New Zealand currency strategist, Danica Hampton, said investors had offloaded the yen following poor Japanese gross domestic product (GDP) data and the resignation of the nation's finance minister earlier in the week. Japan's GDP contracted at its quickest pace in 35 years, the economy shrinking at 3.3 per cent in the December quarter of 2008. Finance Minister Shoichi Nakagawa resigned following a drunken appearance at a news conference following the G7 finance ministers meeting in Rome last week. 'The Japanese GDP data was dismal, and we have also seen increased worries after the resignation of the finance minister will delay spending plans,' Ms Hampton said from Wellington. 'There was huge buying of euro/yen, sterling/yen, Aussie/yen. 'That provided the most support for the Aussie through the first half of the session.' The Australian dollar started the local session at 60.89/96 Japanese yen, up 1.5 per cent from Thursday's close of 59.99/07 yen. But the Australian dollar's rise was capped when US equity markets reversed following weak economic data, Ms Hampton said. Manufacturing activity in the US mid-Atlantic region fell to an 18-year low in February, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said. The bank's general economic index declined to minus 41.3 points, from minus 24.3 in January. Numbers below zero indicate a contraction in manufacturing activity. 'They had started in positive territory, but that was until we saw the terrible Philly Fed index in the US,' Ms Hampton said. The appearance of Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens before the House of Representatives Economics Committee was the key event domestically on Friday, Ms Hampton said. Governor Stevens will begin his testimony at 0930 AEDT in Canberra. 'It will be interesting to see what he has to say on the RBA outlook, and whether it will influence the market's thinking on RBA policy,' Ms Hampton said. Ms Hampton forecasts the Australian dollar to trade between $US0.6400 and $US0.6525 during Friday's local session.
