Lennar shares plunge on possible equity offering Reuters Apr 20, 2009 NEW YORK The stock of Lennar Corp (LEN.N) tumbled on Monday after the homebuilder announced a possible $275 million equity offering that would dilute the value of its existing shares. The proposed issue totaled about 23 percent of the Miami-based company's market capitalization of $1.18 billion before Monday's announcement. "It's just the market perception that they're going to issue shares. The market is trying to get out in front of it," FBN Securities analyst Joel Locker said, adding that he doesn't expect the offering soon. Vicki Bryan of bond research firm Gimme Credit praised the move, which she said would improve Lennar's credit quality by generating cash without bulking up its debt. "I think the bottom line is when you improve the financial condition of the company it is ultimately good for the stockholders," Bryan said. "Troubled times call for more aggressive action." The Dow Jones U.S. Home Construction Index .DJUSHB closed off 9 percent, but news of the equity issue took Lennar down about an extra 7 percent, said Locker. The sector broadly took another hit on credit worries after Bank of America (BAC.N) said credit conditions continued to deteriorate on weakened home prices, said Frederic Ruffy, options strategist at Web information site WhatsTrading.com. CLASS ACTION LAWSUIT Lennar also said on Monday it faces a class action suit in the U.S. District Court of Florida's Southern District that seeks compensation and medical monitoring on behalf of owners whose homes contain defective drywall, which can damage heat, ventilation and air condition systems. Government organizations have determined that exposure to gases emitted by the drywall, used to create interior walls, does not present any danger to human health, Lennar said in its filing. But the company has been replacing the defective drywall and damaged systems in its homes. Analysts said the drywall disclosure was not behind the drop in shares, however, because the news was already out and the number of affected homes is relatively small. The company had already revealed in its first-quarter conference call at the end of March that it had put warranty reserves aside against possible future drywall claims and that drywall had hurt its gross margin by about 1.5 percent. "Lennar is one of many homebuilders that used the drywall," said Bryan, noting that no more than about 35,000 homes have been affected by the issue in Florida, the hardest-hit area. And I think the material impact is going to be nominal. This is not asbestos." Lennar's shares closed down 18.6 percent at $7.60 on the New York Stock Exchange. (Reporting by Helen Chernikoff; Additional reporting by Doris Frankel; Editing by Richard Chang) http://www.reuters.com/article/marketsNews/idINN2040833620090420?rpc=44&amp;pageNumber=2&amp;virtualBrandChannel=0
