  You dont need to be behind on your mortgage payments to ask for a better deal from your bank.Surprised? Its easy to see why. The governments announcement on Tuesday that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would modify terms for borrowers who are at least 90 days late with their payments makes it seem as if only the delinquent are eligible for a personal bailout.But 90 percent or so of homeowners are still current with their payments, and for them, it has often seemed as if the banks were playing a game of chicken. Sorry, but until you blow off the payments for a few months running and wreck your credit in the process, the lender wont even consider renegotiating the terms.On Monday, however, Citigroup announced a pre-emptive campaign to talk to people before they fall behind on their payments. It plans to reach out to borrowers in distressed areas, including Arizona, California, Florida, Indiana, Michigan, Nevada and Ohio, and offer new terms to those who anticipate trouble making their payments.And it turns out that other banks may also be willing to negotiate with borrowers who are current with their payments, even if they arent promoting it as aggressively as Citi.JPMorgan Chase, HSBC and Bank of America, which took over Countrywide and its soured mortgage portfolio, have modified terms for such borrowers. And some of these adjustments are patterned after plans that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation put into place after it took over IndyMac.There are several prerequisites to consider if youre a borrower who is paying on time and wants some kind of a break. The home in question must be your primary residence. And the banks generally need to have your mortgage on their books and not have sold it off to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or someone else.Then, the big question will be how financially strained you are. Perhaps your loan is about to adjust to a higher rate that is barely affordable  or already has. Or maybe you live in a two-income household where one income has disappeared or fallen drastically because of reduced sales commissions. Or, possibly, you lied about how much money you were making when you applied for a mortgage back in 2006 when nobody bothered checking. Whatever the reason, the bank wants to know your current debt to (pretax) income ratio. If your monthly household income is $10,000, the bank may consider you overburdened if youre paying more than $4,000 or so toward your housing costs, or 40 percent of your income. So dont bother trying to get a better deal if your percentage is down near 25 percent.CONTINUE READING...
