For those who follow me on Twitter and Facebook, you know that last month I paid off my Capital One credit card. This month I finished off my Amex and my car insurance through July. No, I didn't change jobs. But I'm taking charge of my finances.At the beginning of this year, I made a few resolutions:Organizing my finances.Going to the gym on my own.Better work-life balance.Sustain my makeover (this one wasn't on my original list).Today's post is all about my financial situation. My first step was at least to track my spending. I employed Mint.com to do this. It takes a lot of trust, but it was worth it. When I first started, Mint.com only did savings accounts type stuff. Now they can do loans, but I haven't played yet with this functionality.My second step was to start a little Nest Egg with $25/week. ING had the best rate; I get 2.75% APY.I talked with Rhett (Mark's sister Natalie's husband) to see what I should do now that I've taken care of the credit cards. (Thank you, thank you from the bottom of my heart for listening to me!!!) The bottom line is that I need to see where my student loans are.In an effort to grow my Nest Egg, I took another step tonight and created a CD ladder through ING. I have a short term (6 months) at 3.5%, a slightly "longer term" (9 months) at 3.75%, and a "long term" (12 months) at 4.25%. Like I say, baby steps. But I think this will get me going in the right direction as far as habit goes. At the end of 6, 9, and 12 months, I can lock them down again, if I don't need to cash right then.I'm also looking at my current bank (Sovereign) and questioning my saving strategies thus far. I have an emergency fund, a separate savings account, and my checking account there. I tried really hard to find my APY, and I actually had to find my most recent statement.Ready? 0.35%My jaw hit the floor. What about inflation (~2%)? I'm technically loosing money over time!! Sovereign, you're fired. I didn't expect to earn anything on my checking, but my savings I did. I might as well have been saving in a shoe box.So now I'm shopping around. I'm contemplating Bank of America, or switching types of accounts within Sovereign Bank. I'm also considering going to ING exclusively. My money wouldn't be quite as liquid as it would be with a bank where I can go to a teller, but it is a pretty good option. Has anyone gone this route?I'd like online banking ideally, but most things automatically draw from my checking account. I'd like to have interest accruing on *both* my checking and savings accounts (better than inflation). Does this exist? Am I asking for too much?
