  Stoke boss Tony Pulis has backed record signing Dave Kitson to 'work his socks' off to establish the club in the Barclays Premier League.Pulis yesterday smashed the club's transfer record to bring in the 28-year-old striker from Reading for 5.5million.He is the Potters' first signing of the summer as they prepare for life back in the top flight after an absence of 23 years.Pulis told the club's official website: 'I think he's a natural goalscorer with great ability, while he's one that will work his socks off for the team. 'I've seen a lot of him over the years and have been impressed with his attitude from afar, particularly his ability to adapt to the challenge of moving into higher divisions throughout his career at Cambridge and Reading. 'His Premier League experience over the past two seasons with Reading is also an important asset for us because we need players who've been there. 'And I don't believe the size of any fee will trouble him. He'll take all that in his stride.' Kitson scored 54 goals in 111 appearances for the Royals but has decided to move on following the club's relegation from the Barclays Premier League.Pulis had threatened to break the club's transfer record - previously the 2million paid for Ryan Shawcross - earlier in the week with a 4million approach for goalkeeper Scott Carson.The club, however, withdrew from the chase and the England international has now opted for West Brom.Royals boss Steve Coppell was sorry to see Kitson leave but did not wish to stand in his way. He said: 'Dave was one of my first signings and I'd like to thank him for his contribution over the last four-and-a-half years. 'I am sad to see him leave but it was his wish to play in the Premier League and Stoke have offered that avenue. 'We wish him the best of luck but his departure will open the door for the players who remain to demand a consistent role in the team.' There is no sell-on clause to Cambridge and Royals director of football Nick Hammond added: 'Once Steve had decided that it was in the club's best interests for the deal to be done, it was my task to generate the maximum income. 'This has been achieved and the money is now available for Steve to strengthen the squad as and when he sees fit.'
