March 6 (Reuters) - The following financial services industry appointments were announced on Friday. To inform us of other job changes, e-mail moves@thomsonreuters.com.   WILLIAM BLAIR   William Blair&amp;Co, a Chicago-based investment bank, announced organization changes it expects will help exploit opportunities as market rivals retrench. Dick Kiphart, formerly head of corporate finance, was named head of the private client advisory business. Brent Gledhill, formerly head of European and Asian banking based in London, will move to Chicago to replace Kiphart and join the executive committee.   Matthew Gooch, formerly co-head of special situations&amp;restructuring, will move to London and replace Gledhill. The changes are effective immediately. No departures are associated with the moves.   O'MELVENY&amp;MYERS LLP   Law firm O'Melveny&amp;Myers LLP said David DeMuro, former global head of compliance and regulation for Lehman Brothers is joining the New York office as senior counsel and a member of the securities enforcement and regulatory practice. DeMuro will focus on advising broker-dealers, hedge funds, private equity firms and investment advisers in regulatory, enforcement and legal matters.   DEUTSCHE BANK (News/Aktienkurs)   Deutsche Bank said Masaya Okoshi and Sean George joined the bank as managing directors in global credit trading within the global markets division. The two, both recruited from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, will be based in New York and trade corporate bonds and credit derivatives.   ALVAREZ&amp;MARSAL   Alvarez&amp;Marsal, a restructuring firm, hired Art Barrios as a senior director in its New York-based business consulting practice. Barrios previously worked for PricewaterhouseCoopers as a managing director. He will work on expanding the group's insurance and financial services business.   U.S. BANCORP (News)   Minneapolis-based regional bank U.S. Bancorp said Marc Belton was named to its board of directors. Belton is EVP worldwide health, brand and business development at General Mills Inc.   GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC   The bank holding company's media sector banker Joseph Ravitch is leaving, the Wall Street Journal said, citing people familiar with the matter.   To read more, please double-click on   GRANT THORNTON UK LLP   The business and financial adviser has appointed Matt Dunham and Giles Newman as new partners within its Recovery and Reorganisation Division. Dunham joins Grant Thornton's Manchester office from BDO while Newman has been promoted from within the firm's Healthcare Team in London.   GREENHILL&amp;CO., INC.   The investment bank hired Ken Goldsbrough and Andrew Kramer as managing directors of its newly formed Financing Advisory&amp;Restructuring Group in London and New York, respectively.   Goldsbrough was formerly managing director and head of Media, Communications&amp;Entertainment at GE Capital in London, while Kramer has been head of Restructuring for the Americas at UBS.   ACE LTD   The insurer's European Group appointed Shaun Edwards as a client relationship manager for its Major Risks business. Prior to joining ACE, Edwards was head of client management at Allianz Global Corporate and Specialty and client executive director at Willis Group Holdings. 
