By Cecile Lefort SYDNEY, March 11 (Reuters) - A bond issue aimed at individual investors by Australian fund manager AMP Group could signal the re-emergence of a retail corporate bond market in Australia. AMP said on Wednesday it plans to sell A$300 million ($193 million) of Australian and New Zealand dollar dual-currency notes paying 4.75 percent over benchmark rates, the first retail corporate bonds in Australia since an issue in the 1990s by Telecom, which later became Telstra Corp. The retail market lost out to the institutional and the bank lending market in the intervening years, because tougher competition made those markets cheaper for issuers. But since the global credit crisis, debt costs have blown out, sometimes to 10 times more than they used to be, prompting firms to consider other funding avenues. Many retail investors, meanwhile, are seeking certainty after losing their shirts on stock markets. 'There is clearly growing appetite among retail investors for that asset class to be available to them, and there is also huge appetite from issuers for deep funding,' said Paul Dowling, principal analyst at Sydney-based banking research firm East &amp; Partners. 'The average Australian retail investor saw 40 percent of his/her wealth lost in the share market ... They have to look at replacement strategies,' he said. AMP's bonds pay a coupon of around 7.88 percent in Australia and 8.84 percent in New Zealand based on the rates on March 10, it said. With bank term deposits paying around 3-5 percent in the two countries, such returns are an eye-catcher for many investors. Retail bonds are very popular in Japan and New Zealand, and bankers expect demand in Australia to grow, though some analysts say the option of issuing is not necessarily open to every firm. 'There is demand for good quality corporate names,' said Chad Karpes, head of bond syndicate at ABN AMRO. 'Retail investors will be drawn first to well-known names.' UBS, one of the joint leads which arranged the AMP offer, said 95 percent of the bonds were placed with retail investors. 'Institutional investors and the banks have monopolised corporate debt in the last two decades as they were also easier to access because they did not require a prospectus', said Tricia Ho, executive director, capital markets at UBS. AMP's subordinated, lower Tier 2 notes will mature in 10 years but are expected to be bought back by AMP in five years. Lower Tier 2 is a form of capital banks are required to maintain as a cushion to protect bank deposits. ABN AMRO, UBS, ANZ Securities, CommSec and Macquarie were joint leads on the Australian dollar tranche. ABN AMRO, UBS and Forsyth Barr jointly led the New Zealand tranche. Key offer dates: Offer closes: April 2 Trading starts: April 9 Call date: May 2014 Maturity date: April 2019 ($1=1.551 Australian Dollar) Keywords: AMP/BONDS (cecile.lefort@reuters.com; +612-9373-1234; Reuters Messaging: cecile.lefort.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.. 
