customer serviceIP telephony Nortel Unified Communications  Bohai Property Insurance, a Tianjin-based emerging national property company, will enhance customer service and telemarketing capabilities covering the whole of China, through a single, unified call center platform powered by a Nortel unified communications solution.  Bohai Property Insurance was established in 2005 with a total share capital of US $162 Million.  The company has since then established a reputation for value and innovation with its expansion to 25 provincial level branches in just over three years.  This growth was the catalyst that prompted Bohai Property Insurance to make important long-term decisions about its call center and telephony infrastructure.  In order to realize its goal of offering services nationwide, Bohai Property Insurance needed to implement a world-class communications solution that would enhance the performance of its core business operations.  The solution also had to be reliable and scalable to grow with the expanding customer base.  The dual capabilities of offering first-class customer service and winning new orders are paramount to an insurance company, said Xiaojing Wang, general manager, Information Technology Department, Bohai Insurance. Our rapid growth has been driven largely by our innovation in channels to market and the services we offer. These are powered by an advanced, mixed function call center based on Nortels unified communications solution, providing more efficient, real-time inbound response to customers and cost-effective outbound selling over the phone.  Offering high scalability, reliability and redundancy, the new call center for Bohai Insurance will soon be expanded from its present 100 seats to 210 seats, and is helping the company realize rapid growth in a highly competitive market, said Jerry Huang, general manager, Enterprise Networks, Nortel Greater China. The technology is helping to drive the business forward in this increasingly Hyperconnected world, enabling customer service excellence across multiple media. And with Nortels solution, Bohai Insurance can expand its call center in new locations in the future, enabling remote staff to work together seamlessly - as if they are sitting next to each other - regardless of skill set and location.  The solutions deployed in Bohai Insurance include Nortels Communication Server 1000, IP Telephony and CTI link middle-ware products. The CS 1000 is a server-based, full-featured IP PBX that provides the benefits of a converged network plus advanced applications and more than 750 world-class telephony features.  Orignal Author:  CRM Management Editors  
