Philippine Daily Inquirer  Filed Under: Banking  Other Most Read Stories x  Business  Business Most Read RSS  MANILA, Philippines  US banking giant Citigroup is confident about growing its retail and wholesale banking businesses in the Philippines despite a lingering global financial turmoil, its top official in Manila said Tuesday.  Citi country officer Sanjiv Vohra also said the US governments entry into the American bank will would not affect its Philippine interests, as these formed part of the core businesses under Citicorp.  Vohra said Citi would continue to take an active role in the Philippine market, citing that the energy, consumer staples and financial services sectors remained attractive and Citi would likely be active in various financial advisory and mergers-and-acquisitions action in these areas.  The bank expects to provide more services to other banks, said Anthony Nappi, head of Citis global transaction serves for the Asia-Pacific region.  Nappi said the bank recognized stiff competition from Philippine banks but he added there were also some areas where the US bank could work in partnership with them.  Citis global transaction services, which account for a sizeable chunk of its business, cover cash management, trade, securities and fund services capabilities to corporations, governments and investment advisors.  Citi is the first foreign bank to be accredited to do the premium collection for the governments Philippine Health Insurance Corp. It has also won sole accreditation to handle payments for visa applications for the US embassy and has engaged local Banco de Oro Unibank as a collection agent.  We sell our franchise and when we sell to our clients especially the multinational corporations, were selling the network and the Philippines is an important part of that network, Nappi said.  Another key part of Citis strategy in the Philippines over the last 10 years, Nappi noted, was the establishment of centers of excellence  business process outsourcing hubs for global operations.  Whether you talk about financial reporting or credit [review], we continue to expand our outsourcing activities and thats an important part of the strategy moving forward, Nappi said.  Asked how the Philippines was faring compared to other markets, Vohra said the country was somewhere in the middle of the pack  neither seeing high growth rates like some Asian markets nor suffering from the recession in others.  He said global transaction services had consistently performed well in the last four years. The consumer finance business was also doing very well, he added.  In terms of revenue, consumer finance contributes about 60 percent of Citis business in the Philippines while wholesale banking accounts for 40 percent.  Citi is currently working with ATR-Kim Eng Corp. to handle the privatization of 40 percent of PNOC Exploration Corp., Vohra said.  He added it was involved in a number of financial deals, with some involving privately held companies that could not yet be disclosed. With editing by INQUIRER.net  
