NATIONAL Australia Bank will make about a 25 per cent cut to its interim dividend and plans to restructure some of its operations. Picture: Bloomberg  The moves by new chief executive Cameron Clyne come after an operation review.   NAB now joins rival ANZ Banking Group in announcing a big cut in its dividend.   Analysts expect Australia's other major lenders will follow suit as banks look to preserve capital to help offset weakening market conditions and rising bad debts.   In a statement, NAB said its bad debts were rising, but were in line with expectations.   National Australia Bank also announced plans to restructure its nabCaptial institutional bank, which has been the source of significant financial pain for the bank over the past year amid write-downs for its holdings in risky credit instruments.   The division's CEO, John Hooper, will leave that position, and move to the group's UK business.   Mr Clyne, unveiling his strategy for the bank after just over three months in the top job, also announced a flatter, more streamlined management structure.   As expected, the group said it would retain its UK businesses, which it said were proving 'resilient' despite difficult market conditions.   But Mr Clyne said the group's primary focus would be on its Australian operations, and it was open to acquisitions that enhance its organic strategy.   It is also open to small international acquisitions.   Mr Clyne's global economic outlook was downbeat as he noted the world was moving into a recessionary cycle at a faster than anticipated speed. There is great uncertainty around the timing and speed of an eventual recovery, he added. The move by governments and central banks around the world to prop up business and consumer confidence was unprecedented and it was not yet clear how the actions would pan out, particularly on the regulation front. Some industry trust has been lost, Mr Clyne said. How consumers will respond, as their confidence returns, is not yet clear. We are potentially in for a long period of de-leveraging by households and companies. Mr Clyne said NAB needed to be flexible in the face of a wide range of possible outcomes and its four main goals were to main a strong balance sheet, generate more synergies in its business, stand out in the market to attract more customers and focus on growing its Australian business. Australia has the benefit of timely government and regulatory responses, and is relatively better positioned than many other markets, he added. Additional reporting: AAP 
