ABC HOLDINGS Limited (ABCH) has postponed its US$150 million capital raising initiative as the turmoil on the global financial markets takes toll on the regional banking group.  The US$150 million rights issue had been approved by the banks shareholders in July and was designed not to dilute the existing shareholders following the injection of capital by Citi Venture Capital International (CVCI).  Post the approval, the global financial markets have been in turmoil necessitating that the capital raising exercise be postponed, the group said in a statement accompanying the year ended December 31, 2008.  Discussions with major investors are still continuing and there should be some finality on this issue within the next couple of weeks.  In June CVCI, a subsidiary of New York based banking group, Citibank approved an investment of US$25 million by way of a two-year convertible loan into ABCH.  ABCH said all conditions precedent to the CVCI loan had been fulfilled.  In addition, the group is in the process of clearing all the outstanding conditions precedent in respect of the IFC (International Finance Corporation) convertible of USD 13.5 million, it said.  ABCH said draw down on both loans should be undertaken shortly.  In January last year, IFC subscribed for 13 850 845 ABCH shares at a total cost of BWP37.4 million taking its shareholding in the regional banking group to 10.7% of the total issued share capital.  If the US$13.5 million convertible loan is drawn down, it will increase IFCs shareholding in the group to 23.8%.  ABCH, the brainchild of reputable banker Douglas Munatsi, has operations in Botswana, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Tanzania and Mozambique.  The group said progress had been made to roll out its retail project though it said it will take longer than previously envisaged.  We now anticipate opening a few branches in each country during the course of 2009, starting in July. We are excited about this project but realise that the economic environment is now very different from when it was first conceived, it said.  Instead of the aggressive approach that was planned for, we will now proceed in a measured way, and position the business for the economic environment.  
