COMMONWEALTH BANK is negotiating confidential settlements with clients it shares with Storm Financial that could potentially cost the bank tens of millions of dollars as it attempts to head off legal action over its alleged role in the collapse of the failed wealth adviser, and the financial ruin of its clients.  CommBank said yesterday it has a team negotiating 'rearrangements' with the Storm clients. Some of the deals are expected to avoid a public relations nightmare for the bank which might otherwise be forcing destitute pensioners out of their homes.  The Herald has also received documents dealing with the settlement of margin loans by Storm clients for what appears to be a reduced sum.  All of the deals will require that clients sign away any right to legal action against CommBank over the debacle.  'In this climate, it is appropriate that the bank is seeking appropriate legal arrangements with its customers to ensure that any rearrangements of facilities are final and conclusive, to allow all parties to move on,' the bank said in a prepared statement.  Storm clients who took the failed company's advice - borrowing against their homes, taking out margin loans, and investing the lot in index funds - were caught out when the sharemarket collapsed last year. Thousands face losses that are expected to top $1 billion.  CommBank was the largest provider of mortgages, margin loans, and fund management services to Storm clients.  A class action being prepared by Slater &amp; Gordon is expected to allege that Storm effectively acted as an agent for CommBank, and other Storm partners like Bank of Queensland, which would make them liable for its flawed advice.  CommBank is understood to be offering a complete freeze on mortgages where the clients are pensioners and unable to make payments. These clients are in effect being offered 'life tenancy' in their homes which will only be sold after their death. In some cases, CommBank will not charge interest and the loan will not be indexed to inflation.  The bank said it is making settlements on a case-by-case basis, and subject to confidentiality, because each customer has unique financial circumstances.  'The bank does not want other customers, whose circumstances may be different, gaining a mistaken view of what the bank might do in different circumstances,' it said.  Last month the CommBank chief executive, Ralph Norris, washed his hands of the debacle.  'The situation [Storm] have got themselves into is their responsibility,' he said.  It is a line the bank maintained yesterday despite the generous concessions now on offer.  'The bank does not concede that it is liable in any way in relation to the collapse of Storm or the effect of that collapse on ex-clients of Storm who are bank customers,' it said.  Bank of Queensland said it already has hardship provisions in place for customers who experience financial difficulties and was not planning any specific deal for Storm clients.  CommBank's offer was welcomed by the consumer advocate John McLennan, who is working with the Storm Investors Consumer Action Group. 'We never dreamt that within six weeks the bank would have a team of people doing settlements,' he said.  Slater &amp; Gordon's Damien Scattini said the deals potentially open CommBank to accusations of undue influence and unconscionable conduct given the distressed state of customers and the short time frame given for people to settle.  
