Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc., a producer of recreational vehicles and manufactured housing, filed voluntary Chapter 11 petitions for itself and certain operating subsidiaries in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California in Riverside. The filings do not include any of the company's foreign or nonoperating entities.   Fleetwood's motor home and manufactured housing businesses will continue to operate while the company seeks buyers for these business units. While Fleetwood believes it has sufficient cash to operate its businesses in the immediate term, the company is also in advanced discussions with its senior secured lenders for new debtor-in-possession (DIP) financing to supplement existing working capital. As of Jan. 25, 2009, the company had bank cash of approximately $23.0 million, excluding cash remaining in nonfiling entities, principally its captive insurance subsidiary.   Filing at this time preserves Fleetwood's right to revisit its Dec. 12, 2008 exchange offer, in which the company issued its 14% senior secured notes. Under Chapter 11, the company has a 90-day period from the offer's effective date in which to revisit the terms; that period will expire shortly. Terms of the senior notes effectively restricted the company from seeking investment in its businesses in view of subsequent deterioration in the market.   The filing also facilitates the closing of Fleetwood's travel trailer division, which the company has commenced. This division accounted for losses of $65.3 million in 2007 and $16.8 million in 2008. The division closing affects three manufacturing facilities and two service facilities employing approximately 675 people. The company is also laying off an additional 65 corporate associates.   Today's events follow three years of restructuring that management undertook in the face of worsening market conditions and, more recently, unprecedented credit restrictions affecting both dealers and customers. Despite these efforts, however, management determined that a court reorganization would offer the best means of addressing the company's existing debt structure and ongoing losses in travel trailers, which cannot be supported in the current economy.   Fleetwood has filed first-day motions that ask the court to approve, among other things, payment of employee wage and benefit charges that were incurred before the petition was filed, and the continuation of certain sales incentive programs, warranty service, cash collateral, and cash management systems. The company is working with its largest national lender and biggest unsecured creditor, Bank of America, to continue to provide competitive RV dealer and consumer financing during the reorganization period.   The company's consolidated balance sheet as of Oct. 26. 2008, showed assets of $558.3 million and liabilities of $518 million.   Fleetwood is being advised by its legal counsel, Gibson Dunn &amp; Crutcher LLP; its investment banker, Greenhill &amp; Co., LLC; and its financial advisor, FTI Consulting, Inc. 
