Calcutta, March 17: After triggering a redemption crisis late last year, banks are once again shovelling cash into mutual funds.  Between October and February, their investments in mutuals have risen nearly 10 times. According to RBI data, banks' exposure to mutual funds have increased from Rs 9,229 crore on October 10, 2008 to Rs 90,109 crore at the end of February.  Prior to this, banks were frantically withdrawing cash, forcing the RBI to throw a massive Rs 20,000-crore lifeline to mutual funds.  Exposures fell from Rs 78,717 crore on September 26, 2007 - when the credit crisis first erupted in the US - to Rs 9,229 crore on October 10, 2008 a fall of 88 per cent. Since then, banks' appetite for mutuals had been so big that the drop in exposure over a 12-month period was covered in just six months.  But what prompted a change of heart?   The RBI had turned on the liquidity tap in October, but industry was not ready to borrow more, given the losses, the job cuts and the piling up of inventories.  As a result, banks parked their excess liquidity in mutual funds and government securities. "After the crunch liquidity situation in September-October, corporate demand for credit slackened quite a bit in November and December. The credit demand from the retail sector was also not encouraging, while banks got enough liquidity following several monetary measures by the RBI and loan repayments by oil companies," said a treasury manager of a public sector bank. "It was quite reasonable that banks deployed their excess liquidity in short-term investments to earn some money till the credit demand picked up again," the treasury manager said. "Liquidity is no longer an issue for banks, but credit risk of the borrower is still there," Tashwinder Singh, head (commercial banking) of Citibank, said at a meeting of the Indian Chamber of Commerce here a few days ago.   Short-term debt and gilt funds were lucrative investment opportunities as these gave an absolute return of between 11 per cent and 14 per cent in the past six months. "Gilt schemes yielded more because the prices of government securities are more sensitive to changes in interest and inflation rates as well as to the government's borrowing programmes," said a debt fund manager with a private sector asset management company.   The huge spurt in investments in government securities between October and February also supports this view. Bank investments in government securities during this period increased to Rs 11,70,158 crore from Rs 9,62,000 crore.  Among other instruments, banks increased their exposure to bonds and debentures of companies.   Investment in this asset class increased to Rs 33,490 crore from Rs 29,101 crore.   Investments in bonds and debentures of public sector corporations remained almost flat during this period - Rs 24,320 crore on October 10 and Rs 25,526 crore on February 27.   Good shape  In February, mutual funds once again crossed the Rs 5,00,000-crore-mark (Rs 5 trillion) in assets after a gap of four months, with Reliance MF at the top.   Total assets under management of the industry grew by Rs 40,000 crore, or 8.8 per cent in a month. 
