National Australia Bank has responded to the recessionary pressures on its balance sheet by becoming the second leading bank of the Big Four to announcing a 25% to its forthcoming half year dividend.  In yet a further sign of the need by the majors to conserve cash because of the twin pressures caused by the growth of bad debts and the much tighter lending environment, NAB's interim pay-out will be slashed to around 74 cents a share when it next reports in six weeks time.  The bank's corresponding dividend payment 12 months ago was 97 cents a share. That had been lifted by 10 cents a share as a result of NAB reporting an 8% increase in cash earnings to $2.2 billion.  But the financial environment has changed significantly since then with NAB having had to raise its provisions substantially for sour debts and its exposure to investments in complex financial instruments linked to the US housing subprime loan crisis.  The global recession is now adding to the bank's troubles albeit that its position is little different to its Australian rivals. All of the Country's leading banks, however, remain profitable and are in a much better position financially than dozens of their international counterparts.  Nonetheless, NAB has followed its Melbourne-based competitor, ANZ, in choosing to take the axe to its dividend in order to conserve cash as forecasts for world and domestic growth tail off sharply in the face of the global economic downturn.  ANZ is looking to save as much as $500 million by slashing its dividend by 25% over the forthcoming year.  Today's announcement that NAB is to do the same thing came as part of a re-vamped operational and longer-term strategy for the bank unveiled by new group chief executive Cameron Clyne.  Mr Clyne, who replaced the near-five year veteran John Stewart on January 1 following the latter's retirement, has firmly focused NAB's immediate future on its Australian base which contributes around 70% of the annual profit to the group's profits.  Mr Clyne's room to adopt a more sweeping change to the bank's future direction has been severely limited by the global financial crisis which in effect has determined a need for NAB to bunker down in the territories in which it operates.  The focus in today's briefing to investors has been to concentrate on cost management, securing and growing its position as the third largest bank in Australia and dismantling its large corporate and investment banking-style business, nabCapital.  nabCapital's chief executive John Hooper has been moved to the UK to work as the number two under the British banking division's boss Lynne Peacock.  The UK operation which includes Yorkshire Bank and Clydesdale Bank will be retained for the foreseeable future amid the worst recession experienced by the British economy in modern times.  Mr Hooper's former division will be broken up with markets, treasury and specialist lending businesses kept in a renamed Wholesale Banking arm. Its various corporate lending operations will be split between the different regional banking divisions which include Australia.  NAB's other international operations - New Zealand, Asia and the US _ have also been brought under one umbrella led by the recently-appointed NZ boss Andrew Thorburn who replaced Mr Clyne following the latter's appointment as CEO.  As part of the ''conservative'' approach set out by Mr Clyne, NAB has effectively ruled out any major acquisitions for the time being, preferring instead to concentrate on bolt-on purchases that could enhance its various brands and distribution of financial products.  The same applies to its international business where its last acquisition was of the Great Western Bank in the heartland of the US just before the country was engulfed by the subprime housing loans difficulties which in turned spawned the global financial crisis.  Mr Clyne has also re-jigged his senior executive team to reflect the changes to its divisional structure as well as the recent departure of Ahmed Fahour, the former head of the huge Australian division.  Mr Fahour was a senior lieutenant of Mr Stewart and was in the running to replace him before the NAB board opted to go for the younger Mr Clyne in the middle of last year.  Mr Fahour parted company with NAB last month to become the interim boss of what is known as the ''Ruddbank'' _ the funding body set up as a partnership between the Federal Government and the Big Four banks to help keep liquidity flowing to the troubled commercial property industry.  
