ANZ Banking Group will absorb its separately managed specialist asset finance business Esanda Finance Corporation Ltd into the bank.  ANZ said the transition will occur over the next three months, and involved the transfer of $13 billion worth of assets from the Esanda entity to ANZ. 'Esanda has built a broad base of loyal debenture customers,' ANZ's managing director of Esanda Moray McDonald said. 'Our customers are naturally attracted to the government guarantee, and today's change delivers them the benefit of the government guarantee when their debenture matures.' The federal government last year launched the Australian Government Guarantee Scheme for Large Deposits and Wholesale Funding to underpin confidence in bank deposits and help banks raise funds in wholesales lending markets with the backing of the Commonwealth's triple A credit rating.  ANZ said making Esanda a division of the bank will not be material to the bank but will allow Esanda's customers to benefit from the changes in the marketplace in recent months.  Esanda mostly lends to small and medium size businesses, automotive retailers, car and equipment buyers.  ANZ said under the change, all existing Esanda debentures will be maintained, but no new ones will be issued from Wednesday.  ANZ will also launch the Esanda Term Deposit, supported by the federal government's guarantee on bank deposits. 'Esanda has benefited from being part of the ANZ Group for over 50 years,' Mr McDonald said. 'Ours is a strongly performing business and our brand and business operations will not change. 'As overseas financiers have withdrawn from the Australian market we have welcomed many new, quality auto retailers to Esanda and have begun an exciting new partnership with Subaru.' Existing debenture holders are not affected until their debenture matures and will will continue to benefit from Esanda's AA credit rating and the strength of its ownership by ANZ.  Existing terms and conditions continue to apply until maturity, when holders will be offered the opportunity to roll-over their investment into an Esanda Term Deposit.  ANZ said the change has been approved by the ANZ and Esanda boards, in consultation with the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. 'The transition to a division causes no change to management reporting lines or the position of Esanda staff, who were already ANZ group employees,' the bank added. Meantime, ANZ has named Graham Hodges as its new deputy chief executive after the incumbent, Bob Edgar, decided to retire.  Mr Hodges is currently chief executive of New Zealand and managing director of ANZ National Bank, a role he has held since late 2005.  He will now be responsible for driving the group's operational performance and managing key client and other external relationships, ANZ said.  Mr Hodges was formerly group managing director of ANZ corporate, and has previously been the bank's chief economist.  Mr Edgar had been with the bank for 25 years. 'Bob has had an outstanding career at ANZ and his leadership and track record over many years has established him as one of Australia's leading banker,' ANZ chief executive Mike Smith said in a statement. 'I know Bob intends to continue his involvement in the business world and I want to extend my personal thanks for his invaluable contribution to ANZ and wish him every success.' Meanwhile, ANZ also said Jenny Fagg will join ANZ's management board following her appointment to the role of chief executive New Zealand and managing director ANZ National, replacing Mr Hodges.  Dr Fagg is currently deputy chief executive officer of ANZ National and managing director of retail distribution.  She was previously managing director of Consumer Finance for ANZ in Australia. 
