ANZ BANK faces the prospect of a hefty compensation bill after an investigation by the securities regulator exposed operational shortfalls across its equities financing business, including inadequate risk management and a 'poor compliance culture'.  In a damning assessment of the bank's custodian services unit - caught out last year through its $1 billion exposure to the collapsed stockbroker Opes Prime - the Australian Securities and Investments Commission has ordered ANZ to overhaul its troubled business, ranging from stock lending to the processing of equities trade.  The agreement is part of an enforceable undertaking agreed between the bank and ASIC yesterday which also involves the bank undertaking independent reviews of its progress.  At the same time, the bank watchdog, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, will track ANZ's efforts to overhaul its risk management and compliance culture.  ANZ has already conducted its own investigation into the Opes Prime debacle and in August sacked eight staff, including two executives, and promised to overhaul its risk management systems.  But ASIC has taken the matter a step further, holding out the prospect that customers caught out by failings in the custodian services business in the past two years should be entitled to compensation.  ASIC found ANZ's custodian arm had a poor compliance culture and management failed to escalate issues and often dismissed warnings. It found the business was inadequately staffed, lacked proper controls and had poor record keeping.  It found ANZ breached corporations law when it was slow to lodge substantial shareholder notices to the Australian Securities Exchange after it became the biggest investor when it seized shares in more than 100 small companies following the collapse of Opes Prime.  The undertaking marks the first time a big bank has entered into an enforceable undertaking with the securities regulator.  ANZ custodian services business provided the management of shares for institutional investors, settlements and trade processing, asset services and investment accounting services. It also provided wholesale equity financing and securities lending - two key areas caught out from the Opes collapse.  In August ANZ's chief executive, Mike Smith, promised to close the equities financing business and shake up reporting lines as part of a 13-point plan to address an 'unacceptable' breakdown in risk controls. He appointed a new chief risk officer but has delayed appointment of a new institutional banking boss to oversee the custodian services business.  As part of its undertaking with ASIC, ANZ admitted shortcomings in its custodian services arm, including 'the obligation to do all things necessary to ensure that financial services are provided efficiently, honestly and fairly'.  It admitted it did not have adequate arrangements to manage conflicts of interest.  ANZ has agreed to appoint an independent expert to monitor progress and bolster its risk management. The bank and an independent expert will determine compensation for customers affected by failures of client accounting processes.  ANZ's acting group managing director institutional, Alex Thursby, said yesterday the undertakings built on the findings of ANZ's internal review, which has already spurred an overhaul of the custodial business. ' 'We will work closely with ASIC and the independent expert ... to ensure the full terms of the undertaking are met,' he said.  
