National Australia Bank Limited (NAB) said it would cut its first-half dividend by around 25% as part of its corporate strategy in response to the current market conditions. The bank highlighted restructuring and cost saving programmes as key to meeting its objectives of a strengthened balance sheet and improved shareholder value.  Group chief executive Cameron Clyne said its conservative approach was necessary in the current economic climate.'The world is moving into a recessionary cycle at a speed that was not anticipated six months ago. There is great uncertainty around the timing and speed of an eventual recovery,' Mr Clyne said.'Some industry trust has been lost. How consumers will respond, as their confidence returns, is not yet clear. We are potentially in for a long period of de-leveraging by households and companies.'Despite the caution, Mr Clyne added that he thought Australia was in a better position than international markets due to government and regulatory responses.  Looking ahead, the company said in response to these conditions, it had set a series of strategic initiatives in place with the focus would primarily on its Australian operations and strengthening the balance sheet.'Our primary focus will be the Australian franchise - to build on the strength of these businesses and to realise the significant future upside that exists through the economic cycle,' the company said.Looking at its Australian banking unit the company said that despite loaning at 1.3 times the rate of its industry counterparts, the bank would retain a disciplined approach.  The company said in its retail banking division it was placed to leverage recent investments in the retail bank, particularly in improving sales effectiveness and network infrastructure.  NAB also said it would continue to invest in its wealth management division seeing potential in the investments and superannuation businesses. The opportunity also existed, the bank said, to cross-sell its insurance products in retail banking.  Looking abroad, the company committed itself to its UK division, despite the difficulties faced in the UK banking environment.'Our UK management team has done an exemplary job of turning around the franchise they inherited. This is proven by its strong relative performance under very tough market conditions,' the company said.'It is absolutely not in the interest of shareholders to exit our UK position. We are committed to supporting this business and preserving our future options through the UK recovery. The UK business is a scarce and valuable mid-sized player.'The bank said John Hooper, formerly CEO nabCapital, would become executive director UK to support UK CEO Lynne Peacock.  The bank also committed itself to a restructure of nabCapital. The corporate lending businesses would be merged into the business bank in their respective Australian, NZ and UK banking operations.  Meanwhile, the company said markets, treasury services and specialised finance business would be managed as a separate unit called 'Wholesale Banking' with a focus on delivering value-added solutions to business and corporate clients.'The remaining non-franchise related activities will be progressively exited. These non-franchise areas of activity sit outside of NAB's relationship model and include the purchased conduit assets,' the company said.The company said other strategic initiatives included the establishing greater efficiencies through technologies, and more streamlined shared services.'We are setting up a service company in order to facilitate this convergence more effectively,' the bank said.NAB noted that it would retain an open mind about opportunities as they present themselves.'In Australia, we will consider acquisitions where they enhance our organic strategy, for example, in the areas of distribution and brands,' NAB explained.'Internationally, we would consider small acquisitions if they de-risk or create greater value in our existing positions, for example, deposit books or distribution infrastructure.'The bank said it would bring about changes and take the company forward under a new executive team with a focus on customer and relationship banking, following the February 20th departure of executive director Ahmed Fahour.  At Wednesday's close, NAB shares were 2c higher to $16.30.
