AUSTRALIA'S largest home loan broker says Rudd's first home buyer grant has sparked a building rebound that could prevent a recession.  Mortgage Choice chief executive Paul Lahiff said more than $8 billion worth of home lending had been completed by the end of January - and he believed more than $2 billion of it was to fund purchases of new houses. 'We are experiencing incredible growth in activity,' Mr Lahiff told BusinessDaily. 'I suspect the multiplier effects in the economy for suppliers of building materials will start to show up in official economic data for the March and June quarters.' Home loan brokers are among the first intermediaries to discern imminent changes in home construction activity because they are a first port of call for people planning to build.   Mr Lahiff said his company's franchised network saw continued record growth throughout February, with more than 25 per cent of all brokered loans being for new dwellings.   His comments offer some hope for the embattled suppliers of building materials such as Boral, CSR and James Hardie, all of which have been hurt by falling sales in the past year.   The Federal Government will be hoping the anticipated rise in housing construction will underpin a wider economic recovery.   The Government increased the first home buyer grant on newly-constructed homes by $7000 to $21,000 last October.   The mortgage industry and major banks are now pushing for the Government to extend the deadline of the first home owner support scheme beyond June 30, because lenders now have a backlog of applications to process.   The backlog has become so severe that the country's largest home lender, Commonwealth Bank, is taking up to 20 days to process loan documents.   This has created big headaches for brokers trying to confirm financing on behalf of borrowers. 'CBA is experiencing issues and I think they would recognise that,' Mr Lahiff said. CBA's head of retail products Michael Cant said his bank's first home buyer volumes had more than doubled since the grant was increased in October and aggregate mortgage volume was up 40 per cent since the middle of February. 'The volumes have been extraordinary in the last month - they have hit a record high,' he said. Mr Cant defended the bank against suggestions it was now unable to cope with the flood of applications, saying reports of 20-day waits on approvals were rare. 'I'm not saying that it doesn't happen in some cases, but on the whole I think we have been coping well for the volumes that are coming in,' he said. 'We've had to put on more staff and we've been looking to increase staffing levels through temps and contractors.' Mr Cant said the June 30 deadline was contributing to the rush by customers to get loans in place. 'It would be in the interests of the industry that the grant be phased out in an orderly manner,' he said. 
