THE Commonwealth Bank is offering financial relief to thousands of clients of failed Storm Financial, but only if they agree not to pursue claims in court.  The bank has approached investors across Queensland with a plan to halt loan repayments and keep their homes following the collapse of the Townsville-based group in January.  Sources said yesterday the deals were conditional on Storm clients forgoing their right to seek damages from the bank in court, or compensation through one of several class action lawsuits now in the planning stage.  Mark Weir, co-chairman of the , said the conditional offers of help suggested the bank was afraid of a wave of litigation and had implicitly admitted its culpability in dispensing high-risk margin loans through its offshoot . 'We interpret this exercise as . . . some concession that they think they might have a problem and now want to make themselves out as the good guys,' Mr Weir said. Damian Scattini, a lawyer with class action specialists , which has signed up more than 1000 Storm victims, said the bank had adopted a potentially risky strategy with the use of a release clause in contracts. 'It would be fraught with danger for the bank to try to truss them up with a deal without independent advice,' Mr Scattini said. Storm clients have reported members of the banking team urging them to cheer up, considering their plight was not as dire as recent bushfire victims.  A Commonwealth Bank spokesman declined to provide details about the assistance packages.  But he said there had to be a response to law firms trying to drum up business by bashing the bank. 'In this climate, it is appropriate that the bank is seeking appropriate legal arrangements with its customers to ensure that any rearrangements of facilities are final and conclusive,' he said. 'The bank's policy is to ensure that every ex-Storm client who agrees to rearrangements of their facilities obtains independent legal and financial advice about the consequences of doing so. The bank does not concede that it is liable in any way in relation to the collapse of Storm.' Since many Storm investors are elderly, the bank's scheme is understood to include a provision for the repayment of a loan once a homeowner has passed away. A six-month deferral on mortgage repayments, but not margin loan repayments, is also believed to be on offer.     
