AS THE first finance company to fail under the government's deposit guarantee scheme, Mascot Finance merits special attention. The Treasury says it looked over the company's books before agreeing to let it into the guarantee and 'based on that information at the time in terms of risk ... of Mascot Finance going into receivership, we had no reason to believe at the time that it would fail'.  Really?  Let's see what information was available.  Mascot was one of the smaller lenders in the sector, but not tiny. Its most recent accounts, for the year to March 2008, showed a loan book of $118 million, just over half of which (57%) was lent on property projects of various kinds. The rest of the lending was to charitable trusts for gaming machines and to commercial loans.  The lending was financed by a debenture book of $123m.  Right there, it is clear that Mascot had a problem. Its debenture liabilities were greater than its loan assets. What's more, the imbalance was more severe in the short term. Only $53m of its loans were due for repayment within one year, while Mascot owed $71m to its debenture holders over the same period.  Before the year was up ie, by the end of this month Mascot was highly likely to hit the wall.  The situation was not necessarily terminal. Mascot had $10m in cash and a $1.4m tax repayment due, which meant it could survive the year if it found a further $7m.  Was that likely?  No. The company's debenture investors were running scared that year they withdrew a net $36.7m of their money and there was no reason to think they would regain confidence. At the time it applied for the guarantee, Mascot had stopped raising debenture finance at all.  A $650,000 overdraft facility with Westpac Bank was also terminated after balance date.  Mascot's desperate situation didn't require much detective work. It was laid out clearly in the liquidity profile in its accounts, which showed the company would be in the red to the tune of $6.8m within the next 12 months.  Without a substantial reversal of its fortunes, Mascot had no chance of survival. By the time it entered the government guarantee scheme on January 12, it is highly likely that Mascot was already doomed.  As well as the stress on its short- term balance sheet, Mascot had other problems. Its impaired loans had ballooned to $26m and, of its total loan book, just $104m was neither past due nor impaired.  Its long-term assets were bolstered by a questionable $4.3m of deferred tax, which would be worth anything only if the company returned to profitability.  Its exposure to individual borrowers had increased hugely over the year. About 40% of its loan book was now lent to just four counterparties, compared to a maximum exposure of 15% to one counterparty the previous year. How this occurred was not explained.  This factor was cited as instrumental in calling in the receivers on Monday. According to the trustee, 'the board has concluded that a major loan is now unlikely to be recovered in full. A write down of that loan would result in a breach of the company's trust deed'.  Maybe so, but in reality Mascot was a dead man walking. A default on its debentures was inevitable even if that loan had been recovered.  Another thing one of the criteria the Treasury could consider in awarding the guarantee was whether the people controlling the company were of good character. In this context it is interesting to note that one of Mascot's directors, Christchurch lawyer David John Stock, was fined and censured in 2007 by the Canterbury District Law Society for serious misconduct after acting for both his long-term mistress and her unwitting husband, in a deal in which the husband signed away his interest in the family home.  He was also criticised by Justice Willy Young in 2002 for having 'a credibility problem' and for repeatedly making 'untrue' statements during a court dispute between rival meat companies PPCS and Richmond.  So where does that leave us?  For the Treasury, it's clearly not a good look. If this is its idea of due diligence we have a great deal to worry about.  For investors, the Treasury's loss is their gain. Without the guarantee the $70m still owed them would be tied up in moratorium or receivership for years and a capital loss would be highly likely.  For investors already facing huge losses in other finance companies, it is unfair that they bear the burden of financial collapse, while Mascot investors do not. But the guarantee was always going to have that outcome.  Whether Mascot's case shows the government guarantee works depends on what it's for.  If it's to keep the finance sector functioning and lending by restoring confidence among debenture investors, it didn't work. Investors still stayed away from Mascot, the company stopped lending and went bust anyway.  If it's to ensure investors don't lose money, it looks to have worked really well. Taxpayers, however, won't be happy to keep bailing out financial zombies.  
