TELSTRA'S chief financial officer, John Stanhope, has given the clearest signal he is not in the running to fill the shoes of the outgoing boss, Sol Trujillo, after he yesterday joined AGL Energy's board.  Mr Stanhope's appointment as a non-executive director also raises the prospect of Telstra's second-highest executive preparing to exit the telecom. That would would leave senior management devoid of the key drivers of its five-year turnaround plan, after the abrupt exit of the chief operating officer, Greg Winn, in January.  It also signals Telstra favours an external candidate to replace Mr Trujillo when he leaves on June 30. Mr Stanhope, 58, has been suggested as one of the most likely internal candidates.  His appointment to the energy utility echoes the departure last year from National Australia Bank of John Stewart, the chief executive who stepped down just seven months after joining Telstra's board.  An adviser to institutional investors said it was unusual in Australia for chief executives to sit on other boards, although exceptions include Mr Trujillo (a Target Corp director), Coca-Cola's boss, Terry Davis (previously a St George director), and the former Qantas boss Geoff Dixon (previously Leighton Holdings).  The headhunter Telstra hired to search for replacements, Egon Zehnder, is understood to have received strong interest from overseas candidates. Some market insiders believe Telstra's government and enterprise boss, David Thodey, is the most likely senior executive should the board opt for an internal candidate.  But Justin Braitling, a manager of the listed Australian Leaders Fund, said the board's decision to announce an external search suggested it did not have an internal candidate in mind. 'You want a candidate with industry experience because the industry is going through radical change  and it would be a risk to get somebody from outside the industry,' he said.  Foxtel's boss, Kim Williams, is considered a possible external candidate because of his experience in content delivery and massaging the competing interests of the pay-TV operator's owners.  Telstra could opt for executives from US telecom giants Verizon and AT&amp;T or, should the Government pursue a split of Telstra's businesses via a national broadband network, managers from British Telecom could come into the reckoning.  Mr Braitling said Mr Stanhope's appointment might be a sign he was considering life after Telstra, which would be a big blow to the company's executive ranks. The marketing chief, Bill Stewart, and IT and transformation chief, Tom Lamming, are the only two high-profile members of Mr Trujillo's inner circle who remain. However, former public policy chief Phil Burgess and Mr Winn do remain on the payroll as consultants.  Telstra broke a seven-day losing streak yesterday, closing up 7c at $3.28 - just above an all-time low struck on Friday. Investors have taken a negative stance on its exclusion from the Government's tender to build a $10 billion-plus national broadband network.  
