Transcript of a Press Briefing on the International Monetary Fund Staff Reports Entitled Initial Lessons of the Crisis and State of Public Finances.  With Olivier Blanchard, Economic Counsellor and Director of Research, Jaime Caruana, Financial Counsellor, Carlo Cottarelli, Director of the Fiscal Affairs Department, and Reza Moghadam, Director of the Strategy, Policy and Review Department Washington, D.C., Friday, March 6, 2009 MR. MURRAY: Hi, good day. I William Murray, Chief of Media Relations at the IMF, and this is a briefing on a compendium of papers that have been prepared by the staff of the International Monetary Fund, at the behest of the International Monetary and Financial Committee, and to an extent, by the Group of 20 countries. One group of papers, which you have via the Media Briefing Center, is on initial lessons learned from the global financial crisis, and we will be briefing on that this morning. Additionally, there's another group of papers that deals with the state of public finances. It's a separate exercise from the initial lessons paper, but nevertheless, it's germane to current and evolving developments in the global economy. This briefing will not be on the world economic outlook; you'll have that later in the coming weeks. But let me first introduce the briefers today and then we'll have some opening remarks from each of the participants. At the far end of the table is Carlo Cottarelli, the Director of the Fiscal Affairs Department of the IMF; Reza Moghadam, Director of the Strategy, Policy and Review Department; Olivier Blanchard, Economic Counselor and Director of Research at the Fund; and to my immediate right is Jaime Caruana, the Financial Counselor of the Fund. Each of them has had a leading role in the crafting of these staff reports. They will be made public at 11:00 a.m. Washington time, 1600 GMT today. The contents of this briefing will be embargoed until that time, 11:00 a.m., 1600 GMT. Let me turn the table over now to Jaime Caruana. MR. CARUANA: Thank you, good morning. One of the main points of the papers is the notion that the lessons and responses in the area of financial regulation and supervision are key elements in responding to the crisis and to preventing future crisis. But changes in regulation alone will not be enough, and that's the reason why these papers focus on lessons in these three areas, and my colleagues will discuss those other areas, macro and architecture. I will concentrate my remarks on the financial aspects. We have focus on five key areas that we see as priorities for reform in the regulatory framework. These are, first, extending the perimeter of regulation; second, reducing procyclicality; third, addressing market discipline and information gaps; four, improving cross border and cross functional regulation; and fifth is strengthening systemic liquidity management. I will basically concentrate mostly on the first two, which I think are where the debate perhaps is more open. On the first one, in order to better capture and to mitigate systemic risk, and at the same time, avoiding a rush to regulate, we are suggesting that regulation needs to be expanded to a wider range of institutions and markets under a functional approach. Institutions need to be regulated by their functions or by their activities rather than by their legal structure. We are also suggesting a two tiered approach, one tier basically extending the disclosure requirements to provide enough information for supervisors to determine which institutions are systemically important, and the other tier being more narrow, though wider than the present one, that would be, to those institutions, where intensified prudential regulation and oversight is needed. The second reform that we are advocating in the paper are policies to mitigate procyclicality. We argue that capital regulation and accounting standards should include incentives and guidance for the accumulation of additional buffers in good times. These measures should be non-discretionary, and the transition should be phased gradually so that they do not exacerbate the present situation. Accounting rules and valuation practices should be strengthened to reflect a broader range of available information on the evolution of risk through the cycle, and these would facilitate greater consistency with good risk management and sound prudential regulation. We also ?you will see in the paper that we also need to reduce procyclicality in other areas such as liquidity risk. We are in favor of the supplementary leverage ratio. You will see there are other important areas in the papers. But I think I will stop here. If you want to discuss some of the information or the cross border and cross functional regulation, I will be available for your questions. Thank you. MR. BLANCHARD: Good ?I shall talk about the role of the macro economy conditions in the crisis. If I had to list the causes of a crisis, what I would list would be, first, failure of market discipline, then failure of regulation, and then macro economy conditions, and I would do it in that order. When it comes to macro economic conditions, what you had before the crisis was five years of good times, strong growth, low interest rates, stable inflation, and I think there is no question that this led to over-optimism and understatement of risk. And then from that, basically what you saw was excess risk taking and the creation of bad assets and bad behavior in general. So this was basically the environment in which the failure of market discipline and the failure of regulation basically came to allow the bubble and what followed. I think the difficult question is, looking at these five years of growth, were times too good, or were we basically living on borrowed time, and we should have seen it coming? I think the answer is, to a large extent, these five years of high growth were for real, there was sustained productivity growth, and the world was doing well in general, so it's not the case that this was just borrowed growth or borrowed time. At the same time, it's clear that this was not balanced growth and there were imbalances in a number of dimensions. One of the main imbalances was global imbalances ?large account deficits of the U.S., the large current account surpluses in Asia and other parts of the world, and the question is whether they played the role in basically feeding the fire. And I think the argument can be made that, yes, to some extent they did, and the fact that there was a very high saving in the world, that to low interest rates, which by itself is not a bad thing, but basically led to all kinds of bad behavior. The large capital flows to the U.S, and the demand for U.S. assets probably gave incentives to suppliers of these assets to supply what in the end were risky and what are dead assets, so in that sense, I think there's no question that global imbalances played the role in the crisis. The Fund had worried very much about global imbalances before the crisis, but had in mind a different scenario, for the most part, which was that the flows would turn around, the rest of the world would not love U.S. assets anymore and would turn away, and the dollar would depreciate very sharply. That's not the way the crisis came into being, and so far the dollar has been very strong. But that doesn't mean that the risk wasn't there, the risk was there. Large capital inflows really have the potential for danger. And I think that, even if this time this was not the trigger of a crisis, we have to basically focus on these large imbalances, we have to focus on large capital flows. Now, let me turn to the role of monetary and fiscal policy in light of the crisis. In the years preceding the crisis, most central banks had adopted, with various degrees of rigor, an inflation targeting framework. Some were really just targeting inflation, some were targeting inflation and output. But there was wide agreement that this was a way to do policy. And if you wanted to argue that the central banks should care about asset price bubbles or credit booms, then the burden of the proof was on you. I think what this crisis has done is basically turn the tables, and now the burden of the proof is clearly on the central banks to say we should look at it or we can't do anything. Can they do something? I think they can do something. They can construct measures of systemic risk, which would capture some of the evolutions which happened and we didn't see in the last five years, and then having done this, they can, if and when these measures indicate a large increase in risk, react to it in various ways. It remains the case that monetary policy is the wrong tool to deal with asset bubbles; regulation is the right one. But what we're learned is, regulation cannot entirely do the job, so monetary policy has to be ready to do so, and that's one of the messages of the crisis for macro. On fiscal policy, again, I think there are many reasons to believe that budget deficits were too large in a number of countries before the crisis, but again, I don't think that this was the major trigger or the major source of the crisis. There are still lessons to be drawn. The first one is, if budget deficits had been smaller before, we would have more fiscal space today to actually react to the crisis. And so I think the message that, in good times, you better have surpluses---which is a message that the IMF has been giving for a long time, and the crisis makes much stronger---so you really have to have the fiscal space when you need it. The other aspect has to do with the tax structure. And basically, many advanced countries, actually many countries in general, tend to have a tax structure which favors leverage by households and by firms, namely deductability of interest payments and mortgages, for example, for households, decuctability of interest payments by firms for profit taxation. And these two lead to higher leverage t...
