* ANZ, Merrill Lynch reach agreement on Opes dispute  * All claims to be settled for A$253 million. (Adds ANZ comment, background)  SYDNEY, March 6 (Reuters) - Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ.AX) and Merrill Lynch have reached agreement with liquidators of a failed Australian broker to settle all claims for A$253 million ($162 million), ANZ said on Friday.  The broker, Opes Prime, collapsed in March 2008 as the global credit crunch pressured banks to recoup their loans, which the brokerage had used to fund its margin lending operation.  ANZ, Merrill Lynch and other lenders to Opes would contribute to the settlement amount, ANZ said, but did not say what its share would be. Merrill Lynch declined to comment.  The agreement, subject to approval by Opes creditors, represents a return of about 80 cents in the dollar, ANZ said. But the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), which mediated the agreement, estimated the return at 40 cents.  The difference comes from different reference points used for the value of Opes' assets.  Many Opes Prime clients had deposited their shares with the company as collateral for borrowing more funds to trade shares.  When Opes collapsed, ANZ and Merrill Lynch took control of portfolios worth about A$1.3 billion and partly sold them off to recover their secured debts.  The two banks face a class-action suit by Opes Prime clients alleging that they knowingly were involved in misleading conduct by Opes. ANZ and Merrill deny the claims.  'We are pleased that there has been an outcome of the mediation, we will consider the details of the settlement proposal when it is released,' said Ken Fowlie, a lawyer with Slater &amp; Gordon, which represents Opes clients.  'There is a series of pieces of litigation that are afoot. One needs to know what the effect is on those pieces of litigation,' he added.  'If this settlement is sort of accepted, then it would have some effect of bringing the action to an end. I imagine that is what is intended,' Fowlie added. ($1=1.565 Australian Dollar) (Reporting by Mark Bendeich and Denny Thomas; Editing by Jonathan Standing)  
