HYDERABAD: Satyam Computer Services is set to disclose only the current assets and liabilities of the firm to potential suitors and will not give them any full-fledged financial statement.   The company will, however, disclose its order-book position from top clients in the information pack that it gives to suitors, said people familiar with the bidding process.   The due diligence has begun and the Satyam board is scheduled to meet here on Friday to assess the response of the bidders. The government-appointed board has short-listed seven bidders; including engineering firm L&amp;T, Tech Mahindra and the Spice Group, besides IBM, another MNC and two private equity firms. Bidders have to execute a non-disclosure agreement, after which they will be given access to the virtual data room. A new owner is expected to be in place by April 30.   Satyams current assets include receivables or payments due from clients while liabilities include payments due to vendors and salary outgo. The current assets and liabilities as on date could be around Rs 700-800 crore, according to one estimate. The company also has long-term liabilities that include a bridge loan of Rs 600 crore from banks.   The board has already made it clear to bidders that it cannot, with certainty or accuracy, restate accounts. Audit firms KPMG and Deloitte are forensically restating Satyams accounts, after its disgraced founder admitted to perpetrating a Rs 7,000-crore financial fraud. Hence, bidders will not be provided with full-fledged financials for January and February this year and the management estimate for 2009.   Bidders will also have to value the fixed assets of Satyam on their own before putting a price tag to the firm. The company will only provide a list of the companys fixed assets  land and immovable property  and bidders have to assign a value to it. The company has two prime properties in Hyderabad.   The new owner, who takes management control of the firm, cannot borrow against Satyams assets to fund the acquisition. The new management will also have to retain 100 key employees of the firm to ensure business continuity. Bidders will be provided a list of Satyams top 100 customers as part of the due diligence process. 'The list of customers will be endorsed by the respective business leaders for each of these accounts,' said a person on condition of anonymity.   Satyams shares closed up 1.7% at Rs 42.20.   The IT firm is hoping to retain some of its key customers, including GE, Nestle, Saint Gobain, DuPont and Nissan. Around 600 customers including GE, Qantas, National Australia Bank (NAB), Merrill Lynch, American Express, ANZ, Ford and GM continue to work with the scandal-hit firm despite ambiguities about change in management and other financial irregularities. 
