Leading Provider of SaaS-Based Enterprise Content Management Solutions Recognized for Industry Leadership  SAN MATEO, Calif., March 11 /PRNewswire/ -- SpringCM(TM) Inc., the leader in on-demand document management and workflow solutions, today announced that it has been named as one of the '100 Companies That Matter in Knowledge Management' by KMWorld, a leading information provider serving the knowledge, document and content management systems market. The coveted list recognizes companies that have helped to create, enhance, or define the knowledge management market.  'Each company selected embodies as part of its culture agile and limber execution of its mission, embracing a spirit of both adaptability and innovation,' said Hugh McKellar, editor in chief at KMWorld.  SpringCM provides an intuitive platform for the development of collaboration and document-based applications. It effectively adapts traditionally complex and inflexible document management processes to an on-demand model, enabling even small and medium-sized organizations and departments to streamline information-sharing processes at low cost, with minimal risk and capital investment. The SpringCM SaaS-based architecture enables it to achieve quick user adoption and to easily interoperate with existing systems.  'We are very pleased to receive this honor from KMWorld for the third consecutive year,' said Dan Carmel, CEO at SpringCM. 'This recognition underscores our leadership in SaaS-based enterprise content management as well as our commitment to delivering the most advanced document management and workflow solutions to our customers and partners.'  The annual KMWorld list of 100 Companies That Matter in Knowledge Management was compiled by knowledge practitioners, theorists, analysts, vendors and their customers and colleagues.  About SpringCM  SpringCM is the recognized market leader in enterprise-class, on-demand content management. Led by Enterprise Content Management (ECM) industry veterans, SpringCM enables the development of affordable, easy-to-deploy, content-centric applications in a completely Web-based environment. The award-winning SpringCM SaaS platform eliminates the need for software installations, hardware maintenance and prolonged customization cycles. Leading international companies like Avon, Comcast, Health Net, National Australia Bank and Cox Communications trust SpringCM to automate mission-critical content-centric processes across multiple departments. SpringCM Solutions Central is the partner ecosystem where leading companies develop and showcase content-centric applications built on the SpringCM platform. For more information, please visit www.springcm.com.  About KMWorld  The leading information provider serving the Knowledge, Document and Content Management systems market, KMWorld informs more than 50,000 subscribers about the components and processes - and subsequent success stories - that together offer solutions for improving business performance. KMWorld is a publishing unit of Information Today, Inc.  
