Kampala ANYONE who watches business TV can't help but be overwhelmed by the extent of the devastation being wrecked by the global financial crisis.  The US government has committed $180b - or about thrice the size of the east African community economy, to save insurance giant AIG from bankruptcy. AIG last week announced it made an annual loss of $60b last year. The US government has spent more than a trillion dollars so far to stabilise the situation and plans to spend more. And Japan has suffered its worst economic contraction in more than a decade. We have gone beyond being depressed, now we are shell-shocked.  So, a workshop for economic journalists organised by the Commonwealth Secretariat in Lusaka, Zambia, last week, was a great help not only in understanding the genesis of the crisis, but also getting a grip of where Africa fits in the larger picture.  From attendees in the workshop who were from as far a field as Sierra Leone and Mauritius, one thing was clear - the fall-out from the global financial crisis has hit our shores.  It was a shocker when it was demonstrated that no one, least of all the International Monetary Fund (IMF), have an idea of the extent or when the crisis will play itself out.  To step back a bit, the global financial crisis has been triggered by debts going bad in the US banking industry. With banks in other parts of the world buying these distressed banks' assets, they have found themselves roped into the crisis and are now also fighting for their survival. As a basic explanation, I believe that will do.  Now Africa, through no fault of its own, is already suffering the backlash of the crisis.  Our hosts Zambia, who rely on copper exports for 80% of their foreign earnings, have seen prices plummet from $9,000 in 2005 to $3,000 a tonne. To keep afloat, mining companies have started laying off workers and closures are a real possibility.  During tea with president Rupiah Zambia at the end of the course, he restated his commitment to doing whatever it takes to keep the mines open and also revealed they had reallocated resources from non-strategic areas of the budget to help the economy overcome the crisis.  In Kenya, the shilling has depreciated sharply and the Nairobi Stock Exchange is hemorrhaging value at an alarming rate. In South Africa, the automotive industry is coming under a lot of pressure, with car sales falling through the floor as are house prices. Also, banks are tightening on credit and squeezing growth. In Uganda, export receipts are down, inflation is up, the currency is down and the roads have disappeared. Growth projections have been cut across the continent with dire consequences for poverty eradication programmes.  The course coordinator, professor Nixon Kariithi, was adamant that for Africa, this was the crux of the matter.  Speaking about the financial crisis' effect on Africa's poor, he said: 'They matter because they are the worst affected. Our coverage of the crisis is incomplete without reflections on their lives.' Looking forward, Robert Bunyi, a Kenyan investment adviser with Mavuno Capital, said he worries that a lot of businesses on the continent have buried their heads in the sand and continue with business as usual. 'In such circumstances, cash will be key to survival. Businesses need to review their business plans, cut waste ruthlessly and collect payables aggressively the estimates are that this crisis will bottom out in 2010 but the experts have been wrong before and this may last longer than they think,' he told workshop participants.  Ignorance is bliss but knowledge is power. 'The Commonwealth Secretariat strongly believes that well-trained business and economics journalists play an important role in providing credible information upon which individuals, businesspeople and policy-makers can make informed decisions,' Julius Mucunguzi, the assistant spokesperson at the secretariat, said.  There is a time lag between events in the US and Europe and how they affect us so the prudent businessman should watch the international business news channels to get an indication of where we are going. So far it does not look good.  But on a lighter note, a Kenyan friend who lives in Chicago wrote recently:'I don't get this panic about lack of credit. In Africa, we have been operating on cash and its all we know.' Copyright  2009 New Vision.
