Our new research report, '', states that with changing consumer spending patterns and growing income levels, the Indian payment card market, which includes both credit cards and debit cards, has expanded rapidly in the recent years. For instance, the number of debit cards issued by banks more than doubled between FY 2006 to FY 2008. Also, the number of credit card issuance grew by around 60% during the same period.   Future growth potential in this market is tremendous, particularly due to low payment card penetration coupled with low card spending. Shift in consumer spending patterns will also give impetus to the growth of Indian payment card market. Consumers have now been preferring the use of payment cards for these are safer to carry and provide credit facility (in case of credit cards) as well. Besides, there are many other benefits, like reward points and discounts by merchants as well as bankers, which lure customers to shop by their payment cards.   Our research also indicates that the future growth trend, to some extent, will be impacted by the current financial turmoil and credit squeeze. Bankers will also become a little more conscious while doing risk evaluation of credit card applicants. But the overall trend will remain positive over the forecast period.   The report provides a comprehensive research and prudent analysis on the emerging payment card market in India. This extensive research will help the clients to identify the market trends and evaluate the leading-edge opportunities critical to the success of the payment card markets. This study gives an overview on the various factors driving the market, together with the forces that are blocking the growth of the industry.   Besides this, the report also provides brief overview of the key market players including ICICI Bank Ltd, HDFC Bank Ltd, Citibank NA, State Bank of India and Punjab National Bank.   Companies Mentioned:   For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/ebff23/indian_payment_car   Research and Markets  Laura Wood  Senior Manager  press@researchandmarkets.com  Fax from USA: 646-607-1907  Fax from rest of the world: +353-1-481-1716 
