THE Bank of England has moved to cut interest rates to a record, 315-year low of 0.5 per cent and Bank of Queensland to slash its workforce 10 per cent.  The actions yesterday provide yet more evidence of the hostile environment that faces the global banking industry.  In Australia, though, a timorous, but still contrary, view is starting to take hold -- that the Big Four banks are manoeuvring themselves into a position where they can prosper from the fundamental realignment of the global banking industry.   Sure, systemic risks remain, not only in Britain, where the major banks have effectively been nationalised, but also in the US, where lenders continue to fail and threatening clouds hang over the likes of Bank of America and Citigroup.   However, if capital markets start getting less fearful about the domino effect of banks collapsing, and more comfortable about bad debts and capital ratios, then investor sentiment surrounding the Big Four could swiftly change.   This is not just wishful thinking.   Ex-Westpac boss David Morgan said on Friday last week that he saw the majors emerging with huge, enhanced pricing power, following the retreat of foreign banks to their domestic markets and the disappearance of second-tier lenders.   ANZ boss Mike Smith also made his pricing intentions absolutely clear to around 100 big customers gathered for the bank's board dinner, as The Australian revealed this week.   He said ANZ would be fattening its lending margins, reflecting a repricing for heightened risk in a deteriorating economy, as well as higher funding costs.   For many businesses, the assessment of Morgan and Smith deepened the wounds suffered in recent negotiations with their banks over debt rollovers.   One businessman associated with a food manufacturing company, which actually increased its profit last year, said his bank had jacked up the margin paid over a benchmark borrowing rate threefold to fourfold.   A prominent company chairman put it more bluntly, arguing there was a massive shift in equity under way from the corporate sector to the banking industry.   Stockbroker BBY is sufficiently confident there is a new and powerful trend under way to have upgraded the Big Four, predicting they are well positioned for a 20-30 per cent trading rally.   National Australia Bank, Commonwealth Bank and Westpac were lifted from 'hold' to 'buy', while ANZ became a 'hold' instead of 'underperform'. 'While the short-term pain of the credit crisis -- particularly global systemic risks emerging in eastern Europe -- remains, we believe major Australian banks will enjoy the long-term gains of diminished competition, increased market share and enhanced pricing power,' analyst George Gabriel said.   There was an obvious caveat, however. Gabriel cautioned that the global outlook was deteriorating and there were systemic risks.   This was highlighted by major bank credit default swaps currently trading at their peak -- ahead of levels attained in October and November last year after the collapse of Lehman Brothers.   In terms of the margin grab by the banks, the early warning sign came in NAB's 2008 annual result, announced last October.   In February, CBA's December half-year profit, where the net interest margin rose from 1.98 per cent last June to 2.04 per cent, confirmed the trend.   Asset repricing contributed nine basis points, partly offset by two basis points of margin decline arising from the hot competition for deposits.   Chief executive Ralph Norris had this to say about pricing: 'The other issue in and around pricing (is that) over the last 10 or 15 years we've seen margin for risk effectively competed out of the market, and had such a large amount of liquidity internationally that we saw very, very low interest rates, which led to low margins and significant leveraging.' Subsequent trading updates from Westpac and ANZ delivered a similar message of widespread asset repricing in an environment of reduced competition.   The big issue for the non-bank business community is whether the majors will -- or already have been -- over-flexing their new-found pricing muscle.   As one businessman said, if the banks were underpricing for risk in the boom years, it's not as if their profitability suffered. 
