NATIONAL Australia Bank's massive structural changes to be announced tomorrow by the bank's freshly minted chief executive could see several adjustments made to the bank's technology operations. The banks management team is expected to undergo a significant restructure when CEO Cameron Clyne reveals his strategic vision for NAB just after midday.   Hundred of workers are expected to lose their jobs as part of the restructure, the Herald Sun reported today.   Several weeks ago, the bank farewelled Ahmed Fahour, executive director and former head of its Australian business, previously a front-runner to take the top job at NAB.   After months of speculation predicting his departure, Mr Fahour left to manage the so-called Rudd Bank, a $4 billion venture between the federal Government and the big four banks to refinance viable commercial property companies.   Mr Clyne, a former IBM consultant, is said to have a keen interest on how technology is managed at the bank and the $1 billion project to replace its core banking systems. 'This is a once-in-a-generation issue where you take your core banking platform and replace it,' Mr Clyne said at last years annual general meeting. 'It is a significant investment and therefore I need to actively sponsor that. 'It provides great opportunity to converge a range of processes and technology and, irrespective of whatever strategic directions I come back with next year, that replatforming of the business is absolutely one of the top two to three things I need to focus on.' NAB declined to comment on whether there would be changes made to NAB chief information officer Michelle Tredenick's role as a result of Thursday's restructure.   Ms Tredenick - appointed by Mr Fahour in October 2004 - has recently come under pressure for the handling of the banks information technology outsourcing (ITO) initiatives, which has seen the banks core technology functions handed over to fraud-stricken outsourcing firm Satyam.   Last month NAB put the brakes on its second wave of offshoring - dubbed ITO Wave 2 - after Satyams co-founder and chairman B Ramalinga Raju revealed he inflated the outsourcing firms cash reserves by $US1 billion.   NAB previously denied the first phase of outsourcing, known as ITO Wave 1, was behind schedule because key systems could not be 'stabilised'. It is understood that at least 100 full-time and contractor staff were retrenched from the bank as part of ITO Wave 1.   Ms Tredenick has led the banks massive technology overhaul internally known as Project NEOS, which will see NAB spend $1 billion to develop its next-generation banking systems (nextgen) and also move to a new technology services delivery model.   The bank said the offshoring problems has had no impact on the nextgen systems, which is in its infancy with early design work being performed by software vendor Oracle and outsourcing firm Infosys.   Ms Tredenick and Mr Clyne are said to be familiar with each others' management style having been with the company since 2004.   Then-chief John Stewart appointed Mr Clyne to review all major projects at the bank by. Ms Tredenick was appointed CIO in late 2004.   Mr Clyne later took charge of the New Zealand business before he was appointed NAB Group CEO late last year.   Any changes to the NAB CIO role could see extra responsibility handed to technology services general manager Craig Bright and general manager technology Denis McGee.   Mr Bright took on an expanded role last year when two of NABs biggest technology teams - technology banking Australia and enterprise services technology - were combined into the technology services hub, which houses about 1300 staff.   Mr McGee, who spent 39 years with ANZ Bank, is a well-known technology operator in the banking and finance arena.   He was one of the technology architects responsible for ANZ Bank's successful IT operations in Bangalore, India. 
