ELEMENTS of the ANZ Bank's $253 million settlement with creditors of the defunct share lender Opes Prime are 'borderline contempt' of court, a Federal Court judge declared yesterday, as he adjourned a dispute to allow the bank and creditors to negotiate key parts of proposed deal.  Only days after the Australian Securities and Investments Commission announced a deal that would be Australia's biggest-ever compensation payout, Justice Ray Finkelstein adjourned a matter between ANZ and an Opes Prime creditor, Beconwood Securities.  The adjournment is intended to give the bank time to reach an agreed scheme of arrangement with the liquidators, Ferrier Hodgson, which will then be put to a vote of creditors.  The case will not be mentioned in court again until June 30.  It is believed Judge Finkelstein objected to a clause in the terms of settlement that would apply if a trial occurred while the scheme of arrangement was still being prepared. It is understood parties would be able to rely on the clause to revisit the settlement agreement in such a case.  Judge Finkelstein said the clause amounted to a threat against those who would want a court to hear their complaints.  'That is a borderline contempt, isn't it? Threatening people not to go to court by taking away something from them, who aren't parties to the agreement, I don't know about that,' he said.  If he were to hear a matter captured by the clause, he 'would not be influenced by [the] clause  in any way at all'.  David Andrews, a partner with the plaintiff law firm Slater &amp; Gordon, said Judge Finkelstein appeared to be 'looking for a contradictor - someone who wants to speak against what is proposed' so he could be sure all parties were being heard. Slater &amp; Gordon is representing a number of Opes Prime's former clients, who have become creditors since the stock lending firm collapsed.  Opes Prime collapsed last March because of trading irregularities and a growing stream of margin calls against client positions. The firm borrowed shares from clients, which it would then lend to financiers as security for loans of its own.  When Opes collapsed, it created a massive dispute over the ownership of the shares which has embroiled hundreds of the firm's former clients, as well as the ANZ Bank.  The scheme of arrangement negotiated by ANZ, the investment bank Merrill Lynch, Ferrier Hodgson and ASIC requires the approval of half the clients representing 75 per cent of money owed in order for it to be binding on all clients.  
