The bank also said it will retain its UK operations because its international businesses are proving resilient despite the difficult economic climate.   In a strategy update announced on Thursday, new NAB chief executive Cameron Clyne also flagged a restructure of its struggling nabCapital division. 'As part of maintaining conservative settings, and reflecting the increasingly challenging external environment, (the) dividend will be reduced by approximately 25 per cent for the 2009 half year,' NAB said in a statement on Thursday. 'The main business priorities are to develop NAB's Australian franchise by growing the business bank, leveraging recent investments in the retail bank and continuing to pursue opportunities across the wealth management value chain. 'The international businesses are proving to be resilient under difficult market conditions. 'We remain committed to the United Kingdom business.' Analysts had expected the bank could announce job cuts and the sale of the UK operations.   Mr Clyne's global economic outlook was downbeat as he noted the world was moving into a recessionary cycle at a faster than anticipated speed. 'There is great uncertainty around the timing and speed of an eventual recovery,' he added. The move by governments and central banks around the world to prop up business and consumer confidence was unprecedented and it was not yet clear how the actions will pan out, particularly on the regulation front. 'Some industry trust has been lost,' Mr Clyne said. 'How consumers will respond, as their confidence returns, is not yet clear. 'We are potentially in for a long period of de-leveraging by households and companies.' But Mr Clyne said NAB needed to be flexible in the face of a wide range of possible outcomes and its four main goals were to main a strong balance sheet, generate more synergies in its business, stand out in the market to attract more customers and focus on growing its Australian business. 'Australia has the benefit of timely government and regulatory responses, and is relatively better positioned than many other markets,' he added. 'Our primary focus will be the Australian franchise - to build on the strength of these businesses and to realise the significant future upside that exists through the economic cycle.' In Australia, Mr Clyne sees a chance to lift market share in business lending. 'Particular areas of focus are specialisation of bankers and certain geographies where there is significant opportunity to build market share,' he said. 'We are also addressing our underweight position in the segment of customers with turnover less than $3 million per annum. 'Risk is being more appropriately priced and this will benefit our business, particularly given our strong relationship banking model.' NAB's personal banking business was well positioned to ride out the downturn due to its low relative exposure to personal unsecured lending. 'There remains significant opportunity to build this business into a true retailer,' Mr Clyne said. 'I am comfortable that we can extract significant value from this business going forward.' He also sees significant upside in the bank's investments and superannuation business run by the MLC wealth management arm. 'While our market share has declined in recent periods, I am less concerned by this as we have chosen to focus more on protecting margin,' Mr Clyne said. 'Asset management is also an area we intend to develop further.' Mr Clyne said nabCapital will be restructured, with the corporate lending business merged into the bank business.   The treasury services and specialised finance businesses will be managed as a separate unit, to be called Wholesale Banking. 'The remaining non-franchise related activities will be progressively exited.,' he said. The non-franchise areas are outside NAB's relationship model and include purchased conduit assets.   But NAB will keep its UK banking business due to its relatively strong performance in a very tough market. 'The reality is that our position is proving to be resilient and our UK assets are performing better than peers on many measures,' Mr Clyne said. 'It is absolutely not in the interest of shareholders to exit our UK position.' Mr Clyne has also bolstered the UK business with the appointment of former nabCapital chief executive John Hooper as executive director UK to support UK chief Lynne Peacock.   NAB added that its businesses in New Zealand, Asia and the US were also proving to be resilient. 'Market disruptions are producing unique opportunities,' Mr Clyne said. 'In Australia, we will consider acquisitions where they enhance our organic strategy, for example, in the areas of distribution and brands. 'Internationally, we would consider small acquisitions if they de-risk or create greater value in our existing positions, for example, deposit books or distribution infrastructure. 'We will undertake such investment if it preserves our funding and balance sheet strength.' NAB share closed on Wednesday at $16.30. The stock was trading around $27.66 a year ago.   (AAP) 
