 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   BLD, AAC, BNB, CCL, SHL, CNP, PBG, BOQ,   AAP 2009-03-06   US shareholders of ANZ Banking Group are mobilising as part of a class action that alleges executives made false statements about the Opes Prime saga to inflate the bank's share price.  Two high-profile US securities litigation firms filed motions for the lead plaintiff in the New York federal court last Friday.  This was part of a class action launched in December against ANZ chairman Charles Goode, chief executive Mike Smith, chief financial officer Peter Marriott, and non-executive director and chairman of the governance committee Ian Macfarlane.  Florida-based securities litigation firm Vianale &amp; Vianale LLP filed the motion on behalf of at least three plaintiffs, Vianale's principal and former federal prosecutor Ken Vianale told AAP on Friday.  There was no opposition to the motion, which was filed with New York securities class action specialist firm Stull and Brody, Mr Vianale said.  An expert will decide on class-wide damages later in the action, he said.  On Friday an ANZ spokesman reiterated that the bank believed the class action was without foundation and would be defended vigorously.  The bank had no further comment, he said.  The litigation firms allege violations of the US Securities Exchange Act and lodged a complaint in the US in December pleading two counts involving employing a scheme to defraud investors and making false and misleading statements on at least 11 occasions since March 2, 2007, over ANZ's business, finances and operations.  This included information in trading updates, market guidance statements and on significant events regarding loan impairments, Vianale alleged in the complaint.  The law firms launched the action on behalf of purchasers of ANZ's American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) - negotiable US securities representing a non-US company's publicly traded equity - traded from March 2, 2007 to July 27, 2008.  They claim all purchasers of ANZ ADRs - trading through the Bank of New York Mellon - during the class period 'suffered similar injury' through their purchase of stock at artificially inflated prices.  The class action gained traction as ANZ announced on Friday it had reached agreement with Opes Prime liquidators Ferrier Hodgson, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) and Merrill Lynch over a proposed $253 million global settlement offer to settle claims made by investors in Opes Prime.  This settlement offer is subject to the approval by Opes Prime creditors and court approval of a creditors' scheme of arrangement giving effect to the offer, ASIC said in a statement.  Opes Prime, which specialised in the borrowing and lending of securities, collapsed on March 27 last year after cash and stock movement irregularities were uncovered in a small number of accounts.  Alison Bell
