The Pacific region, despite its isolation from major international markets, will not escape the impacts of the global financial downturn, the Talamua online reported on Thursday.  Chief Executive Officer of ANZ Bank Worldwide Mike Smith, who in Samoa this week. said the Pacific is already starting to feel the impacts of recession  Clearly the Pacific will not escape the global downturn, and the first impacts of the global downturn have already been felt. 'There has been a large drop in the price of commodities, the price of copper, for example,' Smith said.  Since the downturn of events worldwide, the World Bank and the Asia Development Bank insisted initially that the Pacific will be spared from the crisis due to its isolation.  'You do not actually notice the impacts of the global meltdown in the Pacific, but that is probably quite understandable, because the problem started in the United States and went east, and really we are the last place to be affected,' Smith said.  'We actually live in a global economy, and nobody is immune from this crisis, no one person is going to be immune from this crisis. Today if there is a crisis in Wall Street then the impacts is going to be felt here in Apia, that is the way the world is today,' Smith was quoted as saying.  The ANZ CEO, who arrived in Samoa from the Melbourne Headquarters, said Samoa may be spared from being severely impacted if foreign Aid from Australia and New Zealand remain unchanged.  'Many Pacific countries are recipients of foreign aid, while it is possible that these Foreign Aid will be affected as these donor countries experience domestic difficulties, the historical evidence indicates that foreign aid is largely driven by non economic factors, so I am optimistic that we will not see a sharp fall in aid flows, 'Smith said.  So far, Australia's aid budget to Samoa has increased, as well as New Zealand.  According to Smith, the hardest impact of the financial crisis will be through remittances.  'Many of the Pacific countries are recipient of remittances from Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere, and I know that remittances are a very important source of income to the community. It is likely that it will slow and starting to happen as unemployment increases in developed economies, but this is difficult to predict.'  Smith said that it will be a tough year for the Pacific however with its proximity to Asia, Australia and New Zealand the Pacific will emerge from this crisis in 'reasonable shape.'  
