HONG KONG/SYDNEY, March 1 (Reuters) - Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ) has hired Credit Suisse to advise on a potential $2 billion bid for the Asian units of the troubled Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), sources with direct knowledge of the matter said on Sunday.   ANZ's pursuit of RBS's Asian assets is focused mainly on the retail and commercial banking assets, and not the investment bank, one of the sources said.  ANZ is most interested in RBS's retail banking operation in India, the source said. More detailed information about the Asia-Pacific operations of RBS is due out some time next week, said the source, adding that the process was in its early stages.  Reuters has previously reported that RBS hired Morgan Stanley to advise it on the sale of Asian assets. The sources did not want to be named because they were not authorised to speak on the record.  ANZ and Credit Suisse declined to comment.  ANZ has been the most aggressive of the Australian lenders in its Asian expansion, buying minority stakes in banks from Indonesia to China. It is currently applying for a banking licence in India.  In 2007 the bank appointed HSBC executive Mike Smith as its new chief executive, who has focused much of his time on emerging markets. Last spring, ANZ was on the shortlist to buy a controlling stake in Hong Kong lender Wing Lung Bank, but lost the auction to China Merchants Bank.  Wing Lung's market capitalization at the time was more than $4 billion.  The South China Morning Post on Sunday quoted unidentified sources as saying that ANZ could spend as much as $3 billion to buy RBS Asian assets, which would include RBS's Hong Kong and China businesses.  The report said Standard Chartered (STAN.L) might also be interested in some of the RBS operations.  RBS this week reported the biggest annual loss in British corporate history and accepted a further 13 billion pounds ($18.6 billion) in emergency funding from the British government.  ANZ is not without its own financial concerns. The bank last Thursday said it would cut its full-year dividend by about a quarter and post flat profit growth due to rising bad debt charges.  With no stated plans to raise capital, however, ANZ looks to be in better financial shape than other banks across the region struggling through the credit crunch. With RBS's dismal financial outlook, the sale of Asian assets could allow a buyer to scoop them up at affordable prices.  RBS acquired retail and commercial banking operations in Asia from its ill-fated purchase of ABN Amro in 2007, a deal that also enhanced its investment banking presence in the region. The acquisition is blamed in part for RBS's current woes. The UK government has taken a 70 percent stake in the bank.   
