COMMONWEALTH Bank and Westpac are losing customers following their multi-billion dollar regional bank acquisitions last year.  And smaller rivals, such as Bank of Queensland and Bendigo Bank, appear to be the beneficiaries.  CBA, which acquired Perth-based Bankwest for $2.1 billion in October, appears to be suffering the biggest customer exodus according to official data published by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.  The authority's monthly report on banking statistics shows that Bankwest's household deposits base fell $380 million to $14.07 billion in January.  The data suggests that the customer attrition rate has accelerated since December when Bankwest suffered a $163 million net outflow of deposits from household customers.  The big outflow of deposits is a concern for CBA chief Ralph Norris, who last month said that the integration of Bankwest was on track.  In fact, Mr Norris was so enamored by the performance of Bankwest that he boosted the carrying value of the acquisition in the interim financial accounts by more than $540 million.  However, if customers continue to evacuate Bankwest at the current rate, then CBA may be forced to review that decision and mark down the carrying value of the subsidiary in its full-year accounts.  Westpac is also facing a battle to hold on to customers at its recently acquired St George subsidiary.  St George's household deposit base fell $135 million in January to $36.8 billion.  While the decline is less significant in percentage terms than the Bankwest performance, Westpac also suffered a $300 million outflow from its non-St George operations.  Westpac negotiated the St George purchase before bank stocks were de-rated by investors last year and ended up paying more than $12 billion.  Chief executive Gail Kelly is trying to minimise customer losses to ensure the group can generate some shareholder value from the purchase.  Customer attrition at Bankwest and St George appears to have delivered new customers to Bendigo Bank, Bank of Queensland and ANZ.  Bank of Queensland is the fastest-growing retail deposit bank in the country, after it attracted an additional $500 million from household customers in January.  Bendigo boosted its household deposits by $310 million to $15 billion, while ANZ grew its base by almost $200 million to $55 billion.  The success of these banks was also fuelled by deposit outflows at Suncorp Metway and National Australia Bank.  Meanwhile HSBC Holdings, Europe's biggest bank by market value, is reported to be raising as much as 12 billion ($26.6 billion) to bolster capital as bad US loans erode earnings.  Reports yesterday said the bank was considering a rights offer.  
