New Quick Start Templates for Finance, Human Resources, Legal and Compliance, and Sales and Marketing Accelerate Deployment of Content-Applications   SAN MATEO, Calif., March 10 /PRNewswire/ -- SpringCM(TM) Inc., the leader in on-demand document management and workflow solutions, today announced the immediate availability of version 5.1 and four QuickStart department-specific solution templates designed to quickly automate common business functions in finance and administration, human resources, legal and compliance, and sales and marketing. Included in each solution are templates for common business processes such as recruiting, expense reporting, contract management, and many others.  The SpringCM core platform has also been enhanced as part of the 5.1 release in several major areas:'SpringCM 5.1 enables customers and partners to develop sophisticated content applications faster than ever before,' said Dan Carmel, CEO. 'This release of the SpringCM service represents a new level of collaboration between our customers, our partners and our product team, as a majority of the enhancements were in direct response to customer and partner feedback. Likewise, our new QuickStart packages take best practices that we have learned from client engagements and package them in a way that accelerates the time to success for customers. This continues to demonstrate the clear benefits of the SaaS model for delivering productive content management solutions in tough economic times.'About SpringCM   SpringCM is the recognized market leader in enterprise-class, on-demand content management. Led by Enterprise Content Management (ECM) industry veterans, SpringCM enables the development of affordable, easy-to-deploy, content-centric applications in a completely Web-based environment. The award-winning SpringCM SaaS platform eliminates the need for software installations, hardware maintenance and prolonged customization cycles. Leading international companies like Avon, Comcast, Health Net, National Australia Bank and Cox Communications trust SpringCM to automate mission-critical content-centric processes across multiple departments. SpringCM Solutions Central is the partner ecosystem where leading companies develop and showcase content-centric applications built on the SpringCM platform. For more information, please visit www.springcm.com.  Web site: http://www.springcm.com/   PR Newswire. All Rights Reserved 
