ongress is rushing to respond to the widespread public outrage over the $160 million in bonuses paid to American International Group (AIG) executives with taxpayer money.  The most popular idea is to tax the bonuses, but such a retroactive tax would raise very serious legal questions.  I will be discussing this issue on Countdown tonight.   New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo has revealed that AIG paid bonuses of $1 million or more to 73 employees, including 11 who no longer work for the company.  President Obama and members of Congress have expressed outrage even though they crafted the legislation that allowed for this money to be given in bonuses.   The AIG contracts were written in March 2008, so the obligations were known to AIG when it was negotiating with Congress and it does not seem that, at the time that the contracts were signed, AIG could make good on these obligations.  Under the contracts, these executives were guaranteed  100 percent of their 2007 pay for 2008, regardless of their performance.  It seems precisely the type of policy that led to this company imploding &#8212; performance of the executive is irrelevant to their compensation. Yet, Congress was dealing with a group of executives that had shown little business judgment and considerable greed in their destruction of their own company. Yet, Congress saw fit to give these same people hundreds of billions of dollars and then express shock that they acted precisely in the same way with the public funds.  It is akin to giving money to the Pirates of the Caribbean and then express surprise that they blew the money on women and grog.  After these are men who toast &#8221; &#8220;Take whatever you can and give nothing back&#8221;  (To avoid any understandable confusion, there was the Pirates not the AIG executives). The bonuses made be defended on a provision expressly put into the $787 billion stimulus last month by Sen. Christopher Dodd who  provided for exception for contractually obligated bonuses agreed on before Feb. 11, 2009. Dodd is under intense scrutiny because he is reportedly to have been the largest recipient of donations from AIG executives. The amendment made it into the final version of the bill, and is law. I, however, do not see how Congress can make this cat walk backwards with a simple tax bill.  This smacks of a bill of attainder if directly at one or two companies.  There may be a question of fraud in the drafting of these contracts.  Moreover, there is considerable questions raised by bonuses paid by Merrill Lynch. In a letter to Rep. Barney Frank, Cuomo writes:  On October 29,2008, we asked Merrill Lynch to detail, among other things, their plans for executive bonuses for 2008, including the size ofthe bonus pool and the criteria they planned to use in detennining what, if any, bonuses were appropriate for their top executives. On November 5, 2008, the Board responded and stated that any bonuses would be based upon a combination of perfonnance and retention needs. However, Merrill did not provide my Office with any details as to the bonus pool, claiming that such details had not been detennined. Rather, in a surprising fit of corporate irresponsibility, it appears that, instead of disclosing their bonus plans in a transparent way as requested by my Office, Merrill Lynch secretly moved up the planned date to allocate bonuses and then richly rewarded their failed executives. Merrill Lynch had never before awarded bonuses at such an early date and this timetable allowed Merrill to dole out huge bonuses ahead of their awful fourth quarter earnings announcement and before the planned takeover of Merrill by Bank of America. Merrill Lynch&#8217;s decision to secretly and prematurely award approximately $3.6 billion in bonuses, and Bank of America&#8217;s apparent complicity in it, raise serious and disturbing questions.  The AIG bonuses are equally staggering.  The top individual bonus was more than $6.4 million, and the top seven received more than $4 million each.  For the full story, click here        
