Image via WikipediaBig Crisis = Big Opportunity I am for a second trillion dollar stimulus package. It was not the New Deal, but World War II that got America out of the flunk last time. We can't have a world war, but we sure can have a second stimulus package. And this second stimulus package has to have global dimensions.Anatomy Of A CrisisMoney poured into America because the American banks were thought to be the safest for the elites around the world. What did they know? The American bankers did not know what to do with all this flush cash. So they started running ponzy schemes, legal ponzy schemes, subprime mortgage backed securities, credit default swaps, what have you.The problem in the world is not too much capital, but too little. But the architecture of global finance made it look like there was too much capital, too few capital outlets. And so all that extra money went on to create a housing bubble. This was not exactly wealth creation, but it got counted as wealth creation in the banks' books.Old White Men Need To Chew GumNeeded: A New Global Financial ArchitectureStimulus: Make It A TrillionStimulus: Size MattersGlobal Finance, Global Terrorism, Global WarmingToo Many Big BanksIf a bank is too big to be allowed to fail, that bank is too big, it should be broken into a few different banks. And it is never too late to break up banks like that.Transparency, Accountability There are banks and regulations. And there is this huge financial sector that has so far stayed out of that tent, without regulations. That is bad, that always was bad. Got to bring the entire financial sector under the tent. Infuse massive transparency and accountability. You can't play great soccer without the basic ground rules. I am all for the market, I am all for innovation. I am not saying the referee should now join the game. I am saying we need a referee.America Can't Do It AloneOver the past few years we have seen wild wildfires in Greece, California, in Australia. In each case the culprit was global warming, but local law enforcement hunted for arsonists.Imagine a climate version of this financial crisis. Imagine a dirty bomb each in 10 big cities of the world on the same day. What we are going through is a finance version of such worst case climate and terrorism scenarios. The finance version is less heartbreaking, and it is so very heartbreaking as is.But this is dress rehearsal. Handling this crisis will and should help us build mechanisms to deal with some future crisis in a different domain. More importantly, we should learn to prevent them. Could America and the world have taken actions over the past few years to prevent what is happening now? You bet.Democratize the IMF, World BankTreat the people in the Global South like human beings. Pump more money into both. Bar the two from humiliating the poor countries every time they deal with them.A Global Marshall Plan NeededWe don't need a world war, but we do need a global Marshall Plan. I am not sure about old fashioned aid. I am proposing a trillion dollars into microfinance. If the US Treasury gives a 5% return, microfinance gives twice as much. What has China been thinking lending Bush a trillion dollars to wage a wrong war? It should instead get into microfinance.Big money needs to get into big infrastructure projects across the Global South. We have to make major investments in human capital.Microeconomics, Macroeconomics, GloboeconomicsThe theoretical framework of the academic discipline is not aware the world exists. Just like economics added macroeconomics to its body about 70 years ago, now is time to add globoeconomics to the same. The theoretical framework is missing.Long Term Goal: World GovernmentChristianity is just one among many religions. America is just one among many countries, definitely true of Britain. When we are talking global cooperation on issues like climate and terrorism and finance, ultimately we are talking of a world government, anathema to the right in the US. But it is cooperation or doomsday. That is the stark choice. This financial crisis is dress rehearsal.Global Finance: New ArchitectureThe ad hoc ways of global finance so far have proven so very inadequate. We need a framework. We need ground rules. We need transparency. We need accountability.In The NewsA.I.G. Sues U.S. for Return of $306 Million in Tax Payments New York TimesMany in Government Knew Weeks Ago About A.I.G. BonusesHouse Approves 90% Tax on Bonuses After BailoutsObamas to Plant Vegetable Garden at White HouseRapid Declines in Manufacturing Spread Global AnxietyTalking Business: The Problem With Flogging A.I.G.$2.5 Billion in Merrill Bonuses Would Elude TaxRelated articles by ZemantaMarshall Plan For AIG (themoderatevoice.com)Hippie Victory As White House Plows Vegetable Garden [Food Wars] (gawker.com)France Must Relearn Lessons of Roosevelt's New Deal Tax Policies: Le Monde of France (themoderatevoice.com)Recovery Is Around the Corner. No, It's Not! (outsidethebeltway.com)Why not nationalization? (meganmcardle.theatlantic.com)On FDR And The New Deal (themoderatevoice.com)World Bank Says Global Economy Will Shrink in 2009 (abcnews.go.com)Cube-steak Americans vs. the Wagyu-beef White House (michellemalkin.com)Emerging Markets Will Get Hit Hardest By Financial Crisis (yzerfonteinchronicles.blogspot.com)OPEC leaves quotas unchanged - good news only for the short-term (dailyfinance.com)U.S. Notches Record-Breaking Baby Boom (abcnews.go.com)A more perfect union: Barack Obama's Speech on Race (3quarksdaily.com)Germany approves stimulus package (news.bbc.co.uk)Review of Failures of the Presidents: From the Whiskey Rebellion and War of 1812 to the Bay of Pigs and War in Iraq (Thomas Craughwell) (brothersjudd.com)When Wen Jiabao Speaks (mydd.com)Obama Calls Back Reporters (politicalwire.com)How We're Not Turning Communist (alan.com)They Don't Want To Nationalize The Banks, But How About AIG? (oliverwillis.com)Holder is Confirmed (politicalwire.com)NYT Finally Gets Interview (politicalwire.com)Two top White House officials will be traveling to Syria; Obama changes tune on the economy. (slate.com)The Dow has lost 25 percent of its value this year; large companies are crumbling. (slate.com)Banking Paralysis (toadmusing.blogspot.com)AIG To Use Bailout Cash To Pay $165 Million In Bonuses. Yes, Seriously [Confederacy Of Dunces] (consumerist.com)Financial Product Safety Commission: Dems Want Mortgages Regulated Like Toys, Drugs (huffingtonpost.com)Who Stole Our Country, and How are We Going to Get It Back? (firedoglake.com)David Paul: Why bailing out homeowners will not fix the housing market (huffingtonpost.com)Your Official Scary Graph of the Day (allbleedingstops.blogspot.com)Due Diligence, Damn It! (oxdown.firedoglake.com)A Rational And Affordable Process To Solve The Nation's Banking Crisis (Guest Voice) (themoderatevoice.com)Exec Who Brought AIG Down Still Living High (firedoglake.com)US bank chief predicts early recovery (guardian.co.uk)A Weimar Moment (iflizwerequeen.com)AIG: The Black Hole Sucketh (themoderatevoice.com)AIG bonuses: 73 top $1 million (money.cnn.com)After Successfully Protecting Wall St. Bonuses, Financial Lobbyists Turn Focus To Defeating Obama's Budget (thinkprogress.org)Horner I: some wonderful quotes on global cooling (schansblog.blogspot.com)The Great Restructuring (buzzmachine.com)Harnessing the Sun, With Help From Cities (ecoearth.info)Obama and the New Deal Philosophy (americanaffairs.suite101.com)China and the US - the road to rapprochement on climate change (guardian.co.uk)More Lowdown on AIG (talkingpointsmemo.com)Just Gets Worse (talkingpointsmemo.com)AIG Posts $61.7B Loss (businessweek.com)AIG Quarterly Loss Is $61.7 Billion: Biggest Loss In US Corporate History (huffingtonpost.com)The formula that killed Wall Street (isiria.wordpress.com)Apocalypse Lame? (outsidethebeltway.com)Yesterday's heroes must come back from Bretton Woods to save us (guardian.co.uk)World Bank Says Global Economy Will Shrink in '09 (nytimes.com)Bush Screwed Up Not Just The US, But The Entire World (alan.com)G-20 (thenewspundit.com)Global economy: 2009 just like World War II (money.cnn.com)A Depressing Assessment From the World Bank on Global Economic Disparity (time.com)Let's see climate change as an opportunity (guardian.co.uk)My Marshall Plan for the West Bank (cnewmark.com)Jonathan Tasini: The Financial Times: Capitalism Has Failed (huffingtonpost.com)Wen says China worried about US assets (guardian.co.uk)Emerging Lessons of the Deepening Crisis (firstthings.com)The War on Minority Lending: NY Times Helps Bush Aide Smear Maxine Waters (firedoglake.com)Class Warfare is Wrong When The Tide Turns? (myventurepad.com)More fraud prosecutions are on the way; Obama wants to boost IMF funding. (slate.com)America Is from Mars, Europe Is from Venus (businessweek.com)      
