My typical day begins around 6:00AM each morning. The routine goes from a shower to a latte to opening the office to CNBC. Most days I make the rounds through the Opening Bell, to Squak on the Street, to Closing Bell, often times riding the highs and lows (mostly lows) of the market. For some reason it makes me feel more business like, more in tune with the world, to have the markets at my fingertips or in my constant view. But some days are just bad. I mean so bad, so up and down (mostly down) that no good work can be done. The Dow Jones Average can become a black hole that swallows any good idea, positive energy, or forward progress. Those are Food Network days. We switch over the cable to Alton Brown, Emeril, or Giada. Throw in a little Bobby Flay or even Paula Dean and the world just seems to be a better, more comfortable, fuller place. If you have been paying attention at all, you know Bank of America is at the heart of our banking issues in the US. Tarp money, Merrill, congressional hearings, and most notably, falling stock prices. I have been with BOA since they took over Nations Bank which took over Maryland National Bank. If all goes well, I make my every other week visit to deposit what seems to be an ever shrinking check. Thursday was BOA day. During lunch, having had far too much of the Dow plummitting 300 points, I went to my local branch. If you have ever been to BOA, you probably recognize the same scene from branch to branch. The lobby is nicely situated with some couches and chairs and the 42 inch flat screen tuned to either CNBC or CNN. Except on Thursday. Much to my delight, as BOA stock was testing new lows once again, in my local branch&#8230;Rachel Ray and the Food Network. Most eyes in the place were watching something flombay and for a brief moment, in one of the epicenters of our national crisis, all was good. Here&#8217;s to Food Network Days that remind us all that despite our bank accounts or stock portfolios, every man needs to eat so you might as well eat well. 
