Happy Belated Birthday Bank of America!  Sorry to be a day late, but you haven't been living up to your responsibilities, either. Born on March 1, 1927, BOA is a Pisces with a cluster of planets-- Mercury, Jupiter, and Uranus-- in other-worldly, non-material, unstable Pisces. Would you trust your money with a quadruple Pisces?Don't do your banking this afternoon. The moon goes VOC at 2:43pm PST today in Taurus, the sign of banks.  Right now transiting Saturn in Virgo is sternly opposing all of BOA's Pisces planets, scolding it into the unchartered waters of reality.  Pumping more and more money into failing banks will not work. Why hand over more taxpayer dollars to the reckless (at best) banks that left us with this toxic trail of wreckage?For all of his hyped brilliance, Treasury Sec Timothy Geithner is portrayed in a 5,600-word Bloomburg article that was released last week as a second banana, a "timid protg of the good old money boys" who got us into this disaster in the first place. Formerly at the New York Fed, Geithner's feeble oversight of the guilty banks remains a disturbing curiosity. My purely intuitive vibe?  He is not to be trusted. I don't need to know the 'facts' to know that Geitner's message doesnt fly. But Bank of America's President and CEO Ken Lewis does, and in style.Lewis, who was listed among Time Magazine's 100 Most Influential People in the world in 2007 and was named "Banker of the Year" in 2008, is a self-serving Aries with a player Sagittarius moon and Mercury, Venus, and Mars all in slippery Pisces. I wouldn't lend him a nickel and hope to get it back. Talk is cheap (and so is my upcoming blog, thanks!). So President Obama highlighted the importance of putting an end to wastetful spending in his triumphant speech last Tuesday night, saying that the days of bank executives flying corporate jets "were over". Two days later, Lewis took a private jet to New York...to stonewall Att. General Andrew Cuomos investigation into $3.6 billion of suspicious post-bail out bonuses.BOA said that using the luxury private plane for the hour-and-a-half flight was justified for efficiency and timing reasons. The cost? At least $5,000 an hour- just for gasoline and pilots. The cost of a commercial flight on US Airways? $440.Where's the outrage? Who's in charge? Who rules the world? Answer: A handful of obscenely rich people who don't like to share. "Bank of America has made the decision they don't want to turn that information over to us and we, therefore, tonight served Bank of America with a subpoena to turn over that information, and we intend to get that by whatever means is necessary going forward." ~Assistant to the New York Attorney General Ben Lawsky, last Thursday evening. ABC News reported that the session was "ugly and combative" and Lewis refused to provide a 'which executives got what' list,  evading explanation on the bonus billions. Lewis finally cooperated, after four more inquest hours...and then flew back to Charlotte on the same jet.Team Obama has to come up a better plan....or banks will tank, taking the whole economic infrastructure down with it.Earth, the element of natural beauty, sensuality, and materialism, rules now. With restrictive Saturn in earthy Virgo and destructive Pluto in earthy Capricorn, minds are more on money. Taurus, the earthiest of earth signs, forms a protective Grand Earth Trine with both Virgo and Capricorn.  Taurus is the saving grace, the sign of the times, and the antidote. The message? Take care of the EARTH!  Save the planet. Start small. Start today, while the moon's in Taurus. Tend to your plants and gardens. Take some time to appreciate the earthly beauty that surrounds us. Even if that means listening....really listening...to the birds. Scorpio really needs to lay low for the rest of the day. Cancer, Virgo, and Capricorn will have no problem kicking back, but Aquarius and Leo (Obama's Sun and rising) need paradigm shifts. Take it easy this afternoon.  I repeat: The moon will be VOC ALL DAY from 2:43pm PST until a minute before midnight here on the West Coast, when the moon sprints into restless Gemini. Quick, light, and short- term, Gemini is the perfect moon for text festing. Vibrant prints and vivid greens enliven the busy, chatty, multi-tasking days ahead.
