An outraged Congress threatened Tuesday to impose new taxes to recoup at least some of the $165 million in bonuses that insurance giant AIG awarded to executives and traders after getting billions in federal bailout money.So let's just be clear on this. Congress gave them dump-truckfuls of cash without conditions. They then continued to operate the way they usually would, including paying bonuses to, presumably, people that actually did their job well. Now Congress is going to renege on their loans or somehow extract money back from AIG because they don't like the way they're operating. What, exactly, would be the reaction of the press and the Democrat party if Republicans were planning to use the power of the IRS to confiscate money back from an industry they had just given billions with no strings attached because they now don't like how the company is operating? How many editorials can you picture talking about 'government heavy-handedness', 'lack of foresight', 'abuse of power'? Tens? Hundreds? Billions?I remind you that these are the same people that claim they are more capable of operating virtually every aspect, no, make that just 'every aspect', of the United States multi-trillion dollar economy than the businesses themselves.This is what you voted for, America. How's that working out for you? First they spray billions...TRILLIONS of future taxpayers' dollars out to every hand outstretched and particularly right into the pockets of their cronies, without conditions despite their laughable claims of accountability, then, should you look at them the wrong way, they puff themselves up like the useless peacocks they are and demand that you give back "their" money or they'll specifically impose new taxes JUST ON YOU. Abuse of power? At a minimum. First you give them billions without saying what they have to use it for, then when you don't like it, you start saying you're going to tax it back from them? Incompetence? At best!And the press happily joins the witch hunt, chastising AIG and not the morons that gave them billions with no strings attached instead of looking at what the morons have wrought and demanding accountability of them.  In what possible way is this not a stark abuse of power?  What's next?  If they don't like the kind of police car a municipality buys with their "stimulus" funds they'll impose new taxes on the residents of that municipality?  If they don't like the fact that they fund some scientist working on alternative energy and he doesn't come up with results they like they raise his taxes to get back the money they gave him?  Make no mistake, this is exactly what they are talking about doing.Expect more of the same.
