Day of the Dildo............ Ive been working in clay a little bit lately. Throwing pots, sculpting, mostly therapeutic shit like that. Im not very good at it (my friend Dave rules the Wheel) but its nice to feel the squish between my fingers, which is better than feeling any squish in my pants, because, as we all know, farts aint lumpy. So, just for the sake of sanity, Ill squish the clay. When you are turning a pot on a wheel, the whole thing is a failure from the get-go if the clay isnt centered properly. Centering is more important than anything, because the pot will eventually become unbalanced as it is worked before finally collapsing into a warped pile of crap destined for the slop bucket. Knowing when to walk away for a moment (or an hour) to gain some perspective is important, but not as much as centering. Balance is paramount. This unwanted action, this unbalance, is called the wubba after the low, murmuring sound the pot will often make as it wobbles towards destruction. If you happen to be very good or very lucky, you can work with the wubba and perhaps save the pot from ruin, but it is extremely unlikely. Most of the time you wind up with shit for the slop bucket, something to be recycled into usable clay again. Rarely do you just toss the whole thing away as a complete lost cause. Sometimes, though, nothing is salvageable. Sometimes, there just aint no reason to carry on. You might as well start all over again. Which leads me to our illustrious President and his exalted peerage known as the Houses Congress Barrak Obama is not balanced. He is far from centered. He is so far into his first wubba that it is beyond saving, doomed to twist out of control and fling himself into oblivion. His legacy, if he manages to keep ....America.... alive at all, is not going to be recycled. His clay will be disposed of, due to poor balance. So fucking what? How does that me different from any other Obama detractor? Experience. Anyone who knows me will attest to the fact that I have been predicting the Messiahs arrival for nearly twenty years. I have foreseen the absolute destruction of the ....United States.... as we know it, and glimpsed the chaos and mayhem that lies beyond. Three years ago, I told a friend of mine that 401ks, money markets and the stock market in general were due for a catastrophic correction, a correction so devastating that more than half of the value of the market would be lost. He laughed at me. What do mean a scam? he said. My 401k is rockin! I shook my head sadly. Companies and banks, I explained, dont just give away money because you earned it. Even if you were on fire, these people wouldnt give the sweat off their balls unless they could make money off of it. He laughed and said I was paranoid. Talked to him the other day. Turns out he lost $200, 000 when his portfolio went tits up late last year. You were right, he said glumly.  Two years ago, I was telling folks that big corporations are now, as a rule, run by morons who have no problem cooking the books and running things right into the ground, just as long as their Big Bonuses come through, which these captains of industry get EVEN IF THEY FAIL MISERABLY!  John D. Rockefeller, Andrew Carnegie, Thomas Edison would have had all of these types of CEOs and their ilk killed the second their twisted agendas appeared in the boardroom, probably pitching them out a high-rise window. Maybe even yelling at these suited clowns of business as they got the Bums Rush, Detroit styleFuck you, commie!!! No, folks told me. Thats illegal. They have people in the Government to check up and make sure that everything is strictly by the book. Okay, then. AIG? Lies, disinformation, perjury, falsifying documents, conspiracy, malfeasance. Ford, GM, Chrysler? Ditto. Citibank? Same deal. No accountability, no restructuring. The same fucking assholes that ran everything into the dirt are STILL DRIVING THE MOTHERFUCKING SHIP!!!! And now they have MORE MONEY MY money, and the status quo remains. And this dumbness goes on and on and on and on and on. In April I was fired for finally, after three years of watching corporate stupidity so incredible (tens, perhaps hundreds of millions of dollars wasted on vague [read shady] operations and highly questionable financial actions) that I could take it no more. I warned them- in no uncertain terms, believe me- that if they continued on the path they were on, the end would come sooner than they thought when the market crumbled and all their government contracts vanished in a tell-tale haze of money laundering and fraudulent statements. But it was not my place to do so, so they shit canned me. Really, I think theyd been looking for me to give them a reason for some time. Did they deserve to fire me? After what I said to them (using the colorful, descriptive and easy-to understand words like non-functioning ignoramuses, filthy ignorant cocksuckers &amp; pigfucking shit-swilling degenerates to describe them as often as possible in my one hour long, 180 dB diatribe of hate and disgust), youre fucking A right I deserved to be fired.  Some people might think that I should have been arrested, but those people can go off and have a steaming hot mug of Go Fuck Yourself. You can get it right over there, by the Starbucks and McDonalds. But that still doesnt discount the fact that I was right. These fuckers were deliberately running the company into the ground, jeopardizing the wellbeing of everyone that worked there. The big bosses got their bonuses, win or lose, but the average schmuck didnt get a fucking thing because the company didnt make money, so you dont get a raise. Naturally, the HR cunt is waving bye-bye in her new BMW as she tells you this over the squeal of tires when she peals out.  SOMEONE needed to tell these people what good, intelligent, common sensed folks believe inhard work, good pay and the American way. If you study and work hard, you can better than your folks did. You can stand on the shoulders of giants, but that isnt allowed anymore today, so I had to grab these fuckers by the scruff of the neck (figuratively, of course) and lay into them. Inform them, as it were, that when the revolution came, their asses would be the first up against the wall, and there wasnt a goddamned thing they could do about it. They were as doomed as I was the second I told that whipsock (prison slang for masturbatory receptacle or pocket pig) Mark Harris (Plant / operations manager) Dont let the door hit you in the ass on the way out, fucknut. Man, he was a dumb as fucking rock. I heard recently they not only promoted him to oversee more than one operation in the ..U.S..., but they also made him facility manager of the corporate interests in ....Taiwan..... Too bad the dumb fuck doesnt speak Taiwanese, and I have no idea how hes gonna commute, but who cares? Hes an asshole. Maybe his plane will auger in off the coast of ..California.., or perhaps the Russians will shoot down his plane, another accident that those zany Russkies manage to pull off, like ....Chernobyl..... Sure, if Id kept my mouth shut, I might still have a paycheck, but sometimes the aggravations and stupidity swell until there isnt a big enough paycheck in the world to justify taking it up the ass every day so buffoons at the corporate and federal level get all the spooge they desire without the tiring action of a reach-around. There simply isnt enough money to not make me want to start unscrewing heads from necks like bottles of cheap wine. But it was all for naught. I couldnt show those worthless assholes that you cannot succeed through failure, cannot win through defeat..... High ranking Senators, Governors, Mayors, everyone who gets nominated in Barrys Cabinet has more goddamned skeletons in their closet than Charles Manson, Richard Rodriguez and Charles Berkowitz combined. But do these power brokers go to jail for failure to pay upwards of a hundred grand in back-taxes? You can bet your fucking ass that Uncle Sam would have sodomized an average bloke like you or I if WE had been in that situation. Lets ask Willy Nelson how much fun he had when the IRS took EVERYTHING from him, including any albums ready for release and any profits from previous work. Texas, man. You guys had a motherfucker of an opportunity to stop Waco, right then, if you had just stood up for good ol Willy and showed the world that Texas wasnt gonna take any shit from a bunch of mealy mouthed pigfuckers like the worthless, incompetent and dangerously obtuse people at the Internal Revenue Service. The Big Clinton Government would have backed down in a fucking heartbeat if even five thousand folks showed up atthe 'Red Headed Stranger's'ranch to protect it from the greedy hands of Slick Willy and his cunts. Did you know that the U.S. tax code is so huge that NO ONE person knows it ALL. Not even a computer can keep track of the codicils and amendments. And it is NOT a law, it is a CODE, and as such, has an ambiguity about it that allows for interpretation. These interpretations never agree. An example As anyone whos ever paid taxes knows, its a pain in the ass, and can be ridiculously overcomplicated. But, because the drones at the IRS care about you (RIGHHHHTTT!) they set up a hotline, just for you, the taxpayer, in case you might have ay questions regarding your interpretation of the code and how it relates with theirs. So you pick up the phone and call. You get a nice enough sounding meat-puppet in Bangledesh (outsourcing dumbness worldwide- the IRS!) who explains, via computer, what to do. Sounds good, right? But then, after you hang up, something doesnt gibe. The numbers arent adding up. So you call back and get someone else, who tells you that first person you talked to was wrong, and that THIS is what you need to ...
