Not only did George Wimp Bush make a Negro Muslim POTUS, he also made the same Negro Muslim CEO of AIG, Citibank, Bank of America, GM, Chrysler, and a host of financial institutions.     George Wimp Bush didn't do doodly squat for the average American but has elevated the Negro Muslim to dizzying heights. Imagine, a little Negro Muslim from Kenya, abandoned by his parents, who, according to conventional wisdom, wouldn't amount to much. But our former compassionate conservative POTUS, now living in isolation at Crawford where he communes daily with his bovine peers, afraid to appear in public lest he be captured and extradited to Spain to stand trial for war crimes and crimes against humanity, had compassion on the little Negro Muslim from Kenya. He created and oversaw an administration that was designed to fail. So successful was the Bush administration at failure that the American electorate came up with an "Anybody but George Wimp Bush and the GOPers. Being of quk mind, our Negro Muslim seized the opportunity and with his training and experience as a community organizer, he organized a team that landslided Songbird McCain and the GOPers.     However, Barack Hussein Obama did not become President of these United States of America and CEO of a host of corporations alone. He had help: 8 years of failure by George Wimp Bush and a demented, out-of-touch, whorehopping , traitorous geezer as an opponent. Of course, such odds were too formidable for the GOPers to overcome and they were landslided by the little Negro Muslim from Kenya.     *LemmingX* said:      Recovery from 911 recession to best economy in decades      And both George Wimp Bush and John Songbird McCain said:      The fundamentals of our economy are strong.      In light of the Great Bush Meltdown of '08, Bush's and Songbird's statements were egregiously stupid. But nto to be outdone *LemmingX* matches their stupidity by saying, "Recovery from 911 recession to best economy in decades "     *LemmingX*, such a ridiculous statement is proof positive that you are out of your apeshit mind.     The Three Stooges: George Wimp Bush, John Songbird McCain and Melvin Fayard! Pitiful!
