      This is a bit shocking. I guess socialism is coming because we like "the man".  yeah, mike. Raising taxes 3% on the highest wage earners equals socialism.  I guess that makes Reagan a pretty big socialist since his highest marginal tax rates were over 50%. And boy did he like deficits!    Let's ignore national health insurance,nationalizing banks&amp; insurance companies, not to mention a bumbling foreign policy. It's all about the $400 stimulus. That makes it all better.  National health insurance is something most Americans support. But I guess if it's good enough for conservative members of Congress to receive cheap, affordable health care at the taxpayers expense, why can't taxpayers do that for themselves? I mean, Republicans had 8 years to offer something, anything - and they chose to do nothing. So, it's not like you guys have an alternative other than pretending that the market is going to fix it. We're all still waiting.  And even Republicans supported helping out the banks and financial insurance companies like AIG. In fact, it was conservative Republicans like Lindsay Graham who were among some of the first to call for nationalizing the banks (which we have not done; we haven't nationalized anything; these things have been put into receivership and will become private companies once their solvent again).  It's like these goofy GOP governors. They cry about the evil stimulus money, but can't accept it fast enough. It's like that clown Perry - "Stop all this federal government spending (just make sure Texas gets it's cut)."  No offense, Mike, but the Bush/Republican economic plan amounted to a $300 rebate and it was Republicans who doubled the national debt in 8 years.  You and your ilk ignored it for 8 years. And then you suddenly found "religion" on fiscal issues.  Frankly, Mike, you have no idea what socialism is.    You paint me as the partisan but you got me beat by a mile. You completely ignore the Democrats role in the housing &amp; credit collapse. Plus I know the true number of American CITIZENS without health insurance who want it. You want national health insurance so you include illegals &amp; people who have access but opt not to buy it as the uninsured. If anyone's slanting the facts, it's you.  I want less government. Every Obama plan involves more government. It's been proven over &amp; over again that the private sector is much more effecient than the government.  I'm not sure why you are so insistent. Most people are like you who live in a dream land where government can make decisions for us better than we can make them ourselves. I don't know what makes people ignore facts in the hopes government will do it right eventually but it's going to ruin the America I know &amp; love.    Republicans only want less government when they're not the ones in charge. When they are in charge, then they're all for more government.  Republicans don't mind getting handouts when it comes from a Republican president. Bobby Jindal is opposed to receiving stimulus money from Obama but was happy to take $51B from Bush after Katrina. And guess what? The Katrina stimulus money has had a positive effect in Louisiana, which has been rebuilding despite construction projects stopping in most other states and which has a lower unemployment rate than the national average.    The government can provide a safety net. It's not supposed to be in our faces at every turn.
