Economic naivete of the Left.      I remember the day as if it were yesterday; a discussion with this undergraduate at the University of California, Davis. The young man was deeply indoctrinated by his Socialist Professors to the point that he failed to use his brain when it came to economic subjects. Socialism was desirable, he said, because it could best provide for the needs of the country, including industrial growth. Asked how the government would get the money to pay for all the myriad things, he replied: "by generating money." He, of course, meant that the government would print it. And that is essentially what the Obamabots are doing in Washington.      The Left had created, precipitated and managed the crisis of the financial meltdown into an opportunity to push for Socialism. The Community Redevelopment Act (under Jimmy Carter) established the law that Bill Clinton, ACORN and Obama used to force granting mortgages to people who had little prospect of paying it back. The court order to force Citibank to grant such loans shows Barak Hussein Obama as the Attorney for ACORN. The Left then nudged the SEC to reinstitute "mark to market" accounting, which in fact declared the banks insolvent (as it did in the late twenties) and forced them to freeze lending. The instantaneous collapse of the economy gave the Socialists a chance to redo the 30s by electing a communist as President and to retest their theory and prescriptions about the thirties.      The Left tells you that the Depression of the thirties was not halted because the government did not spend enough. Today's American (?) Socialists think that they are smarter than their predcessors in the thirties. This time they are shoveling in money by the trillions to "cure" the ailments they have caused, to stimulate the economy and to bail out the businesses that they drove into bankruptcy.      So, how is it working? A little better than in the thirties at least for now. By mortgaging the future of the country, the financial calamity set in place by the "mark to market" rule has been halted. Not cured, just halted. The SEC (actually the Committee that sets these rules) does not dare to repeal "mark to market" because if money velocity returns to normal, inflation will go through the roof. So, the "mark to market" is useful for the Socialists, because it prevents the onset of inflation AND PROLONGS the crisis atmosphere where all kinds of Socialist goals can be attained. But, the economy will not recover. This year, we may see a contraction of the economy. That suits the Socialists just fine, because they think that we are too rich and use too much of the world's resources anyway.      Eventually, the people will note that under Democrat stewardship their living standards have dropped. Socialists have a plan to manage that also. Obama pretends (with the help of the Media) that it is not really he that is responsible for all the hairbrained schemes, but Congress, his Cabinet, etc. This might work for him for a while, but Congress has to come up with its own "strategy" to fool the people.           
