 So, I was down at KFC today slamming down some chicken so I'd have something to put the pills on top of and that was a pleasant afternoon's sojourn into West Ballarat.  I stopped by a Commonwealth Bank branch so small and uncrowded I was staggered they could keep it open and checked out the exchange rate on the ZWD.  After waiting around for fifteen minutes or so they couldn't tell me so I said my goodbyes and headed up to KFC as I said.  From there it was a simple walk to the TAB at the Western Hotel where I discovered that there was no way I was getting the dividend out of the account&amp;mdash;oh, yeah.  On the weekend I won the footy quad.  Yes, for the first time in ages there was more money in the phone account at the end of the weekend than at the start of it.  Of course, that dividend has to be shared with the three other F'n Quadsters so I won't be able to to hog it all to myself.  Still, my $485 woulld've come in handy had I been able to get it out of the account.  The problem is that I haven't had a collect in so long that I've not only forgotten the PIN for the account, I've lost the card as well.  Okay, giving the other Quadsters their share isn't a problem becauie I can just siphon some money out of the ANZ account, give them that and then replenish the ANZ account once I can get money out of the TAB.  This sojourn into high finance doesn't end here&amp;mdash;the Commonwealth couldn't tell me what the exchange rate on the ZWD is because they don't deal in it.  So my Vista gadget which reports the rate at ZWD7.205 to the dollar, up from 60&amp;nbsp;562 to the dollar on Friday, could be right.  If so, I'm going to top myself.  But wherever it gets its information from it isn't the Commonwealth Bank.How are you following this so far?  Won the POQ&amp;sup1;, hit the TAB&amp;sup2;, checked the ZWD, got some KFC. . .and then went to the IGA.  The Independent Grocer's Association (which you would think is an oxymoron because if they're in an aassociation, who are these grocers independent of?) was the nearest supermarket and on my way home, so I ducked in there for some comestibles.  It being August it was time to get some new eggs.  The ones sitting in the fridge door had been there since Dad's visit in March so it was probably time they were chucked out.  I wasn't going to use them and if by some chance the fridge failed during a hot day, they might somehow germinate like prehistoric frozen eggs often do in the movies and since they'd had time to evolve in there, we might all be slaves of the Ubergallic Empire.  I daren't risk that, I thought, and promptly binned them.  The bins are collected tomorrow morning.  Thank God it's a cold night tonight, or&amp;mdash;was that a cluck I heard?  Kathy next door keeps chickens.  That must be it. . .But I digress.  I bought some dishwashing tablers (Morning Fresh to see if that would work better than the Finish powder I've got at the moment), some bacon (because eggbacon is coming up tomorrow for a pub afternoon and if that wears on he may want bacon and eggs in the morning and he is most welcome to cook them), some muesli, some 'hot twiggies' which are little sausage things full of hot spicy chemicals, a lot of tea, two litres of milk and one of those glass perfume things that Airwick make for the bathroom.  I went up to the express lane and the guy ran all the stuff through the thing&amp;mdash;well, who reading this hasn't been to a supermarket?  You get the idea.  I whip out the card and do all the EFTPOS rigmarole."Insufficient funds," the bloke says affably."What?" I say in a kind of weak voice because I'd heard him but couldn't believe what I was hearing."Insufficient funds," he repeats, equally affably."Holy Crap.  Do you take credit cards?""Sure.""Thank God for that."  So I repeat the EFTPOS rigmarole with Westpac's money instead.  That worked.For the first time since February 1991 I haven't got enough money in the bank to cover $58.59 in shopping expenses.Stunned, I somehow got home and got onto the ANZ website to see how this calamity had come about.  Of course, the reason was obvious.  I'd paid cash for the furniture I'd bought because I didn't have the available credit.  This meant that by the time I'd paid some more on the credit cards and the rent I had bugger-all cash left.  Still, even though the explanation was perfeclty sensible and indeed so mundane you've probably gone off and read something else by now, it was a bit disconcerting.  Nonetheless, I shall lurch through 'til Thursday and then lurch through a bit longer until Thursday week.  I may be in the invidious, indeed downright insane position of having to borrow money off the (temporarily, have no doubt about it) flush eggbacon.  Has the whole world gone topsy turvy?Then, to add to this, AGL ring me to tell me my electricity bill of $178.78 is overdue.  On phoning them and getting, of course, a gentleman from the sub-continent, I managed to sort out in less than an hour that they had sent the bill on the 2nd of June to the wrong address.  Once again, I had to say that the 'North' in 'Drummond St North' is very important.  I didn't know the Urdu for that so I said it several times, loudly.  They offered to send me another bill, to the correct address.  Before they did that I checked both the gas and electricity meter numbers with them, and they had those both right.  Hurrah!  At last!!  And it only took five phone calls.  On the positive side&amp;mdash;$178.78 for eight months of electricity isn't bad, is it? Either I'm really frugal or they're really stupid.  And I ain't frugal. . .So it's a fortnight of impoverishment, but hell I've got the credit if I need it, right?1.  Put On Quad.  The actual bets placed in the football quadrella.  The idea is to pick the winners and winning margins of the four games nominated by the TAB as their quadrella.2.  Totalisator Agency Board.  Since their privatisation they are now known as TABCorp.  They're a private company but still have the monopoly on wagering in Victoria and NSW.
