 Just got back from the bank.  I got to experience the peculiar combination of manic giddyness at the fact that I had a fat wallet of hundred dollar bills and paranoid anger that if anyone attempted to take my money from me, I would not hesitate to break several of their component parts in protecting my cash.  They say that your wallet isn't worth your life.  Sorry, chum, I've got anger and know-how.  I will become a track star if they take off running or Bruce motherfucking Lee if they attack me.  I will become a living avatar of death for the money I'm carrying on me.  All of this in the 100 yards between US Bank and Bank of America.  LOL.On the martial arts front, apparently Muay Thai testing will be coming up here in a few months.  I don't know many of the details but I'm kind of interested in signing up for it.  Something like 90 roundhouses, 35 knees in 3 minutes for first round.  I also will have to learn the traditional Muay Thai opening ritual wherein you get down on one knee and salute the four corners of the ring while doing some fancy hoodoo.  There's a page full of Thai words I have to learn in there too. Salient points are be in shape and have good technique.  Interest is piqued.  Last week I dropped 160 bucks on eskrima equipment.  Two very nice rattan sticks, a padded stick, handguard, wrist guard, and aluminum training knife.  http://www.lamecoeskrima.com.  The knife I got wasn't as cool as the one pictured on the website, but w/e.  Hand and wrist protection are nice and the lead instructor at the gym is urging some of the more experienced students to get the facemask so we can start sparring.  4 students got to go on Monday while the rest of us went through testing stuff.  I was a sad monkey.  Left shoulder and neck are hurting a bit.  I think I overdid it on jabs last Friday and exacerbated things on Tuesday.  I'll probably go easy on it the next couple of days.also, political noise du jour is all about Hillary.  I followed the link from the article on http://www.talkingpointsmemo.com.  Reading the comments section nearly broke my brain.  The amount of WRONG involved in this situation is mind boggling.  We have the best candidate the Democratic party has fielded for President since Hillary's husband was in office and the Clinton camp has the outright audacity to open this wound again right before the convention.  This combined with Hillary supporters so shrill only dogs can hear them makes me want to punch...you know what, it's beyond hyperbole at this point.  Get the fuck over it people.  "Hillary won the popular vote" is a complete bullshit line of thinking.  It only works if you count Michigan and you can't according to party rules.  Fucking deal with it.  In fact, please stay home in November as you've proven yourself too stupid to vote.  Zombie Thomas Jefferson will be at your door tonight at 3:05 am to take your voter registration away.  I'm drowning my sorrows in whiskey.  To paraphrase Battlestar Galactica's Ron Moore, "the bourbon tonight is Woodford Reserve and the no smoking lamp is lit".
