What would you have done in this case? (hat tip hubby) A bank customer shot a robber after an armed confrontation in a Kansas City parking lot Saturday. The robber was wounded in the head and was in stable condition...      What would you have done in this case? (hat tip hubby) &amp;nbsp;A bank customer shot a robber after an armed confrontation in a Kansas City parking lot Saturday.The robber was wounded in the head and was in stable condition at a hospital, police said.The shooting happened about 9 a.m. when a man and a woman were in a car using the automated teller machine at the Bank of America at North Oak Trafficway and Barry Road.They were robbed at gunpoint, but as the gunman walked away, the man in the car got out armed with his own gun, said Sgt. Chris Lantz of the departments robbery unit.The man yelled for the robber to stop. When the robber turned around and pointed his gun, the man fired at him, hitting him in the head, Lantz said.At the scene Saturday, investigators were collecting evidence from a dark sedan parked next to the ATM. An object that looked like a handgun was lying on the pavement. Nearby were apparent bloodstains.Police interviewed the couple and witnesses.     An investigator worked at the scene of a robbery Saturday in which a bank customer shot a man who had taken money from him at gunpoint. The robber was in stable condition. The robbery victim had a permit to carry a concealed gun, Lantz said. Under the circumstances, Lantz said, that would not matter because he could legally carry the weapon in his car.No criminal case has been presented, and authorities are waiting to see whether the patient recovers, said Jim Roberts, spokesman for the Clay County prosecutors office.&amp;nbsp; (By RUSS PULLEY, The Kansas City Star)Many people may say that they would be so happy the robber was walking away and leaving them safe, they would just let him go.&amp;nbsp; What would you have done in the same situation?&amp;nbsp; You can go to The Kansas City Star and read the comments there.    
