 On the eastern edge of Key West, between the airport and Cow Key Channel there lies a bridge and the bridge crosses a wide expanse of water:That is the Riviera Canal and homes that face onto the canal are among the few, the very few in Key West that can boast docks of their very own. There are a few others on Hilton Haven a street on the north side of Garrison Bight, but other than these two areas one needs to buy a house elsewhere if one wants a "wet" lot. Looking east from the bridge lie Key West city limits looking towards Stock Island over Cow Key Channel:And there, in the midst of all that water we see one of Key West's finest on patrol: The other end of Riviera Canal is somewhat less scenic, because for some reason the canal after a right angled turn to the north is being widened and mangrove jungle is giving way to the industrial ditch look, something less than charming:That bridge is Flagler Avenue and as you can see, even though this waterway known as Salt Run Creek exits into the open waters north of the City, nothing much bigger than a kayak will make it all the way, so motorboats docked on Riviera canal have to head out in the opposite direction. Some people do take the time to enjoy the scenic nature of Salt Run Creek: As good a place as any to wait for the soup kitchen on Flagler to open. For those planning on living under a roof there are quite a few choices along Riviera Drive for I saw plenty of For Sale signs, but I'm not in the market as I have my house on a canal about 25 miles away. I just like looking at the architecture along both sides of Riviera Drive. It's a long wide street paralleling Flagler Avenue and the houses on the left are obviously the dry (no canal frontage) lots:The housing stock is mixed, some of it is original 1960's type concrete blocks and some of it has been redone and naturally made much larger:Even the nicest large house on Riviera Drive could use a Bonneville to enhance the aesthetics:And speaking of Bonnevilles somehow my machine got stuck in front of the earth movers rebuilding the boat ramp at Eleventh Avenue and Riviera:And I can't say I've ever seen a manatee in the canal but I will look per requests, this winter. Perhaps if I look I will see one. Some of the canal lots on Riviera are quite opulent. You don't see lawns like this many places in the Lower Keys:And I suspect there are lots of boat lifts because the boats don't get used as often or as much as one might expect, a bit like most motorcycles really:But some people do float their boats as it were:Oh, and then there are the gates, big ones little ones pretty ones and massive ones:There are some brave souls who live gateless in a cold unfriendly world but they compensate with lots of greenery to hide behind, just how I like it:I find the variety of Riviera Drive endlessly fascinating and I'll take any opportunity I can to ride slowly down the street and enjoy it. There used to be sleeping policemen (British/English for speed bumps) but I guess the residents themselves got tired of them and they were pulled. If you are in a hurry it still makes sense to ride Flagler which is the main cross town thoroughfare through the middle of the island. But if, after visiting the automated teller machine machine at Bank of America you choose to ride through the bank parking lot and pop out in back, on Riviera Drive I for one wouldn't blame you.
