By LESLIE BERKMAN  The Press-Enterprise Homebuyers aren't the only ones looking for foreclosure bargains in this real estate market. Developers and newly formed 'vulture funds' are seeking to buy land at distressed prices, hoping to profit by selling it to homebuilders when the rebound comes. 'Acquisitions today at these depressed values will be the deals of the future,' said Norm Scheel, a principal with the Hoffman Co., a land broker based in Irvine.  Residential real estate in all development stages, from raw land to ready-to-build lots, today poses a burden for many homebuilders that have scaled back production and banks that are stuck with defaulted construction loans.  Story continues below Frank Bellino / The Press-Enterprise Investors are buying finished vacant lots by the dozens to hold until values rise, such as these at Scott and Briggs roads in Menifee. Real estate in all development stages poses a burden for many homebuilders. Relatively few land sales have occurred, brokers say.  Brokers report that growing economic uncertainty has scared to the sidelines a lot of Wall Street investors. But they say there are still plenty of prospective buyers, most of whom are waiting impatiently for banks to mark down the prices on housing projects that are repossessed.  The potential for a giant closeout sale seems enormous in Inland Southern California.  Riverside and San Bernardino counties recently contained 30,465 lots ready for construction, complete with utilities, streets, curbs and gutters, and much more residential land is in the approval pipeline, according to Metro Study, a Riverside real estate consulting firm.  Mark Boud, chief executive of Real Estate Economics, estimates that at least 70 percent of residential lots ready for building are in communities where home sales are slow.  Bargain hunters have been disappointed that banks have been generally unwilling to drop prices enough to attract buyers. 'The spread between what is offered and what financial institutions want is huge,' said Randall Lewis, executive vice president of Upland-based Lewis Group of Companies, a major Inland land developer.  Lenders are overwhelmed by the sheer volume of construction loans that have gone bad, said Tom Reimers, president of Park Place Partners, a land broker in Irvine. 'They are like the crocodile that ate a gazelle. It takes them a while to digest it all,' Reimers said. Economist Chris Thornberg said he believes banks also fear that by marking their land portfolios to market value they would be forced to acknowledge they are insolvent.  John Burns, president of John Burns Real Estate Consulting, said investors are eager to see how the land portfolio at Rancho Cucamonga-based PFF Bank and Trust will be liquidated. PFF was recently taken over by the FDIC and sold to Minneapolis-based U.S. Bank.  Another discouragement for some would-be buyers is that most of the land that has become available has been in remote Inland areas such as Victorville, Hemet-San Jacinto and Banning-Beaumont. Burns said some public homebuilding companies are 'chomping at the bit' to buy land that is sharply discounted and close to employment centers to catch a wave of first-time homebuyers looking for affordable houses near work. 'In Chino Hills, not Victorville,' he said. In transactions that have occurred in the Inland counties this year, lots ready for building were discounted 50 percent to 75 percent from their peak in 2004-2005, said Tom Doyle, a principal with land brokerage Whittlesey Doyle.  Park Place Partners reports that between 2005 and 2008 the cost of a finished residential lot in Temecula plummeted fro
