U.S. financial stocks extended their retreat to a second session Thursday as a bleak unemployment reading added to concerns that a weakened consumer may spell a more dramatic slowdown for the economy.News of first-time jobless claims hitting a 26-year high as well as a downbeat forecast by Capital One Financial served to highlight a precarious situation for the consumer, whose economic activity makes up about 70% of U.S. gross domestic product.Shares of real-estate investment trusts were hardest hit in the sector, with losses of greater than 20% spread across residential, retail and industrial real-estate holdings.The top 11 decliners in the financial sector were all REITs, with losses ranging from 25% for Prologis , which operates warehouses for retailers and manufactures, to a 13% loss for Public Storage , which operates 2,100 self-storage facilities across 38 states. The Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund , an exchange-traded fund tracking financial shares, including the REITs, fell 7%.Capital One's shares fell nearly 10%, coming under pressure after Chief Executive Richard Fairbank said the company was likely to make a substantial provision for future loan losses. Fairbank, speaking at a Goldman Sachs-sponsored financial-services conference, also said Capital One's assumptions at the end of the third quarter were that the jobless rate would be at about 7% by mid-2009 and that the average U.S. home price would decline another 10% during that same period. Fairbank was less clear about likely losses at the company's large credit-card operation, but he did say that card-related losses would at a minimum, on a percentage basis, rise point-for-point with the unemployment rate. Credit-card losses could be amplified if housing prices continue to fall, he added.Large-cap banking stocks also traded particularly weak, as Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co. lost 7%. The KBW Bank ETF was off more than 3%.Among Dow Jones Industrial Average components, shares of J.P. Morgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. dropped about 4%, Bank of America Corp. sank 4% and Citigroup Inc. lost more than 3%.Also making a presentation at the Goldman conference, US Bancorp said that fourth-quarter net charge-offs could reach $650 million and that it would build reserves in an amount equal to 90% to 110% of charge-offs. In addition, the company said it expected nonperforming assets to continue to rise. See full story on U.S. Bancorp.US Bancorp shares closed off 10%.'Clearly, this was not expected by investors, and it is quite a different view of the company than what one has been led to believe,' Ladenburg Thalmann analyst Dick Bove said Thursday afternoon.'Management's credibility has been hurt,' he said.On track for worst year since 1985The market-capitalization weighting of the financial sector in the S&amp;amp;P 500 Index has fallen to 12.3% from 16% in October and is now at a nine-year low, according to Ed Yardeni, president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni Research. He said the financial sector is down 55.6% so far this year, putting 2008 on track to be the worst for the period since 1985. 'Financials had [year-over-year earnings declines] in just four of the past 23 years, including 1987, when the sector reported a loss,' Yardeni wrote in a note Thursday. 'A loss during 2008 could be a real possibility, as the credit crisis claims more victims and loan losses pile higher.'Exchange operators in focusAmong Thursday's gainers were shares of NYSE-Euronext , which managed a modest gain.Chief Executive Duncan Niederauer said he continues to see consolidation on the horizon for the exchange industry, following news that his company had been in merger talks with Frankfurt-based exchange giant Deutsche Boerse AG.Niederauer, in remarks at the Goldman-sponsored conference, didn't go into details as to whether the door was now closed to a merger with Deutsche Boerse. 'I do believe we're still in a consolidating industry,' he said. Niederauer also said the company is working to register a U.S. trust bank, regulated by the Federal Reserve, to function as a clearinghouse for credit derivatives trades in the U.S. See story on NYSE-Euronext's trust-bank move.
