By Jonathan Stempel NEW YORK, Dec 11 (Reuters) - U.S. Bancorp and Capital One Financial Corp led shares of major U.S. lenders lower on Thursday, as investors worried that loan losses will soar due to a deepening recession. The decline in the stocks accelerated after JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said on CNBC television that the largest U.S. bank experienced 'terrible' conditions in November and December, and 'constant deterioration' in credit. After the close of trading, Bank of America Corp said it plans to cut 30,000 to 35,000 jobs over three years, citing its planned purchase of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co Inc and the 'weak economic environment,' which is hurting business activity. 'The real economy is weighing down on financial stocks,' said Giri Cherukuri, head trader at OakBrook Investments in Lisle, Illinois. 'It's still a tough world.' Speaking at a Goldman Sachs investor conference, U.S. Bancorp CEO Richard Davis said the bank might set aside $1.37 billion for credit losses in the fourth quarter, up from $748 million in the July-to-September period and $225 million a year earlier. He also said the Minneapolis-based bank could record $300 million in writedowns on various securities. Capital One CEO Richard Fairbank said at the Goldman conference that the accelerating downturn in the economy would likely result in a 'significant' increase in fourth-quarter reserves for the McLean, Virginia lender. While not spared by the credit crisis, JPMorgan, U.S. Bancorp and Capital One have generally fared better than many peers, making their problems appear relatively troubling. Describing the economic environment several times as 'difficult,' Davis said U.S. Bancorp expects net charge-offs of $600 million to $650 million in the fourth quarter, up from $498 million in the third quarter and $225 million a year earlier. Analysts, on average, expected the bank to post a profit of 49 cents per share in the fourth quarter. Sandler O'Neill &amp;amp; Partners LP analyst Scott Siefers lowered his target to 21 cents from 49 cents after Davis spoke. 'We suspect that this reduction is simply among the first in what will likely be a series of reductions for many companies in coming weeks,' Siefers wrote. Meanwhile, Fairbank said many economists now expect the nation's unemployment rate to reach 8 percent or higher in 2009. Capital One had assumed at the end of September that the rate would be only about 7 percent by the middle of the year. 'To anyone who reads the paper, these numbers if anything seem to be getting worse every day,' he said. Capital One is also a major credit card lender. The Standard &amp;amp; Poor's Financials Index closed down 8.5 percent. On the New York Stock Exchange, JPMorgan shares closed down $3.58, or 10.7 percent, to $29.94; U.S. Bancorp dropped $2.82, or 10.2 percent, to $24.85; Capital One slid $4.23, or 13.2 percent, to $27.85, and Bank of America fell $1.78, or 10.7 percent, to $14.91. (Additional reporting by Deepa Seetharaman, Jonathan Spicer and Dan Wilchins; Editing by Andre Grenon and Jeffrey Benkoe) Keywords: BANKS/ (jon.stempel@thomsonreuters.com +1 646 223 6317; Reuters Messaging: jon.stempel.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright  
