By Chuck Mikolajczak NEW YORK, Dec 12 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks headed for a slide at the open on Friday as investors worried about the survival of U.S automakers after a proposal to give them urgent government funding collapsed. The measure to provide $14 billion in loans to avert a possible bankruptcy among General Motors, Ford and Chrysler died in the Senate late on Thursday after opposition from Republicans. For details, see The failure to pass the aid package had global repercussions, with markets in Asia tumbling more than 5 percent while European markets dropped by 4 percent. 'You have three very significant companies that have said they can't operate through the end of the year without help,' said Cleveland Rueckert, market analyst at Birinyi Associates Inc Stamford, Connecticut. The collapse of a proposed bailout for U.S. automakers has raised fears of a deeper economic slowdown and further financial shocks that may jeopardize worldwide efforts to ease a global recession. 'People are very worried about the ramifications of their potential bankruptcy,' Rueckert said. S&amp;amp;P 500 futures plunged 32.40 points and were below fair value, a formula that evaluates pricing by taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract. Dow Jones industrial average futures dropped 284 points, and Nasdaq 100 futures fell 33 points. The slide in stock futures suggested that benchmark U.S. indexes would open down about 3 percent or more. A loss on Friday would present a major headwind for a market that has been trying to recover from an 11-year low hit on Nov. 21. So far this year the broad S&amp;amp;P 500 is down about 40 percent, but since the November low it is up 16 percent. The White House said it would evaluate its options after the bailout plan collapsed. Analysts said that there was some hope the White House would provide some assistance to the beleaguered industry. GM, Ford and Chrysler employ nearly 250,000 people directly and 100,000 more jobs at parts suppliers could hang on their survival. The shares of the carmakers fell sharply before the open but pared losses after the White House said it was willing to consider using funds set aside for a financial bailout for auto aid. Shares of General Motors slumped 20 percent to $3.30 in premarket trade while Ford tumbled 14 percent to $2.47. Also shaking investor confidence was news that former Nasdaq chairman Bernard Madoff was arrested and charged with running a $50 billion 'Ponzi scheme' in what would be one of the largest fraud cases ever. Another sign of the deepening economic slump was news after the bell Thursday that Dow component Bank of America Corp plans to cut about 30,000 to 35,000 jobs over the next three years. Its stock fell 4 percent to $14.30 in pre-market trading. Shares of Caterpillar, a big manufacturer, dropped 6 percent to $39.66 after Goldman Sachs put a sell rating on the stock. In Thursday's trading, U.S. stocks fell on concerns the financial aid bill would fail, while bleak comments about the banking sector from JPMorgan's chief executive prompted investors to sell financial shares. (Additional reporting by Ellis Mnyandu; Editing by Kenneth Barry) ((Charles.mikolajczak@thomsonreuters.com; +1 646 223 5234; Reuters Messaging:rm://Charles.mikolajczak.reuters.com@reuters.net)) Keywords: MARKETS STOCKS (Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for: * 3000 Xtra: visit http://topnews.session.rservices.com * BridgeStation: view story .134 For more information on Top News: http://topnews.reuters.com) COPYRIGHT Copyright  
