MILWAUKEE - Pilgrim's Pride Corp. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Dec. 1, hurt like other meat producers by volatile feed prices and slumping demand but also hobbled by an unmanageable debt load.   The Pittsburg, Texas-based company, the nation's largest chicken producer, sought protection in a filing with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas, saying that as of Sept. 27 it had $3.75 billion in assets and $2.72 billion in debts.   Pilgrim's Pride, which controls about 23 percent of the U.S. chicken market, will continue operating during the reorganization and will not liquidate its assets, spokesman Ray Atkinson said. 'We really believe this will help us come out a lot stronger and we expect it to be business as usual,' Atkinson said. The chicken producer has been saddled by the debt from its $1.3 billion acquisition of rival Gold Kist Inc. in 2007 -- what analysts cite as the primary cause of its large debt load.   Pilgrim's Pride's financial problems have been evident for months, since it said in late September it would post a 'significant loss' in the fourth quarter, citing woes from hedging on feed inputs like corn. It has had to extend its temporary credit line three times since September -- most recently last week. Its third extension was set to expire Dec. 1.   Last month, in accordance with rules set by its lenders, the company hired a chief restructuring officer, and has maintained since its credit issues surfaced that it wanted to avoid filing for bankruptcy.   After the market closed Nov. 28, the company said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it would delay filing its 2008 annual financial report, which had been due Nov. 26. It expects to post a loss of $802 million, or $10.83 per share, on sales of $2.17 billion for the fourth quarter, which ended Sept. 27. Those results include a non-cash charge of $501.4 million, or $6.77 a share due to the impairment of goodwill related to its acquisition of Gold Kist, and an income tax valuation allowance of $35 million, or 47 cents a share, against net operating losses.   The company said the bankruptcy protection it is seeking does not include operations in Mexico or certain ones in the U.S., though it did not specify which ones. The protection does include six subsidiaries, including PPC Marketing Ltd., PPPC Transportation Co., To-Ricos Distribution Ltd. and PFS Distribution Co.   Pilgrim's Pride also said in a statement that it is seeking approval to enter into a $450 million debtor-in-possession financing agreement arranged by Bank of Montreal. The company said if the financing is approved by the court, the money will help it run its daily operations, including paying wages and other obligations.   It said it has also asked the court for additional authorizations so it can continue to pay salaries, provide benefits and work with its customers. 
