Mr Thain, who guided the investment bank to a merger with Bank of America (BoA) just hours before Lehman Brothers collapsed in September, on Monday night told the board that his decision not to take a bonus was appropriate 'given current economic and market conditions'. In a statement from the bank, Merrill said that Mr Thain would be joined by four other senior Merrill managers including President Greg Fleming and chief financial officer Nelson Chai in relinquishing their rights to a bonus for this year.   However the statement came after a day of criticism, following a report that Mr Thain had let it be known to the boards compensation committee that he deserved a $5-$10m bonus.   The report suggested that he felt he had earned the money for helping to secure a future for Merrill, something which rivals at other firms, such as Lehman, failed to do.   That suggestion was immediately seized upon by New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, who, in a drafted letter to Merrill, said the report, if true, was nothing less than shocking. Mr Cuomo has taken it upon himself to closely monitor the actions of the major banks in recent months, following their receipt of $125bn of funding from the US government. Although Merrill did not receive any money per se, BoA received $15bn. 'The performance of Merrill's top executives throughout Merrill's abysmal year in no way justifies significant bonuses for its top executives,' Mr Cuomo continued.   Senate majority leader Harry Reid also tried to claim the moral high-ground, by urging the board to reject Mr Thains request. Mr Thain is understood to have told the board of his decision at a meeting on Monday, although it is not known when he made that decision.   Had he requested a bonus, it would have sent a bad signal to Merrill staff, many of whom are likely to receive zero bonuses known as doughtnuts when they are informed of their annual payments on December 22. The banks bonus pool is down by 70pc this year, and staff are bracing themselves for low-ball pay-outs, even though many typically rely on them for living, because of the way in which banking pay packages are structured, with salaries tending to be a fairly small proportion of the total.   Meanwhile, for the second year running, Mr Thains opposite number at Morgan Stanley has also decided to pass on his bonus. John Mack told his employees on Monday that he would not be taking a bonus, and outlined plans to change the compensation scheme to tie it more closely to its long-term performance. 
