AIG moves closer to selling Filipino unit By Roel Landingin in Manila and Sundeep Tucker in Hong Kong Published: December 23 2008 13:56   Last updated: December 23 2008 13:56 AIG, the stricken US insurer, has moved a step closer to selling its Philippine unit after releasing a detailed information memorandum to potential buyers. Philippine-American Life and General Insurance (Philamlife), is the nations largest insurer and analysts believe it could fetch up to $1bn. EDITORS CHOICE Munich Re buys AIG unit for $742m - Dec-22AIG chief says group is close to sell-offs - Dec-11AIG plans $15bn disposals before year end - Dec-10AIG sells Swiss private bank to Abu Dhabi group - Dec-01AIG to pay retention bonuses to executives - Nov-26AIG praised for freezing executives salaries - Nov-25AIG was rescued from bankruptcy in September by the US government and is selling assets to help pay back part of a $60bn loan and ease the burden of its $150bn federal bail-out. A senior executive of Philamlife on Tuesday declined to disclose the recipients of the document, but said that discussions with potential buyers were being handled by Deustche Bank, which AIG has appointed to advise on the sale. AIG set up Philamlife in 1947 and the local subsidiary has consistently remained the market leader in the country. It reported premiums of 227bn pesos and total assets of 170bn pesos in 2007. A number of Philippine groups are known to have expressed interest in buying Philamlife, and have teamed up with global and regional companies to pursue the deal. Banco de Oro Unibank, the countrys biggest lender by assets, has teamed up with Italys Generali and Malaysias Kuok Group to bid for Philamlife. Metropolitan Bank and Trust, the countrys second biggest lender, could form a consortium with Axa of France to make an offer. AIG has recently announced several small divestments, including the sale of its private banking business and a stake in its Brazilian joint venture. This week, it also sold the Hartford Steam Boiler Company to Munich Re, German reinsurer, for $742m. AIG bought HSB, a provider of plant and equipment breakdown insurance and consulting services, for $1.2bn in 2000. The insurer is also in talks to offload other assets including its US personal lines business, which analysts have valued at up to $6bn. However, AIGs Asian assets are regarded as the companys crown jewels and their sale could help repay a substantial part of the loan owing to the US taxpayer. The Financial Times reported this month that several leading global insurers are in talks to acquire American Life Insurance, AIGs Japanese-focused operation which has an estimated value of more than $10bn. AIG is also planning to divest a large minority stake in AIA, a division with leading life insurance businesses across numerous Asian markets, which analysts say could yield up to $20bn. Citigroup and Goldman Sachs will run the sale process, which is expected to formally begin next month. Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2008 Print articleEmail articleOrder reprints
