Hi, I&amp;#039;ve been watching and learning in the background about Pinchers from this great board and PFFB was one I was tracking. Just wanted to make sure you saw this from their 8K today. http://xml.10kwizard.com/filing_raw.php?repo=tenk&amp;amp;ipage=6011737 Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. On December 3, 2008, PFF Bancorp, Inc. (PFF Bancorp or the Company) entered into an asset purchase agreement (the Agreement) with California Financial Partners, Inc., a California corporation (CFP) whereby the Company agreed to sell to CFP, and CFP agreed to purchase and acquire from the Company, certain assets of the Companys wholly-owned subsidiary, Glencrest Investment Advisors, Inc., a registered investment advisor that provides wealth management and advisory services to high net worth individuals and businesses. The transaction will be subject to Sections 105, 363 and 365 of Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the aggregate consideration to be paid by CFP to the Company shall be 35% of the gross sales commissions earned from the purchased assets each month, for a period of 48 months from the closing date of the transaction. Item 1.03 Bankruptcy or Receivership. PFF Bancorp, together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries, intends to file a voluntary petition in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware by December 5, 2008, seeking relief under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code. The Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing is a result of the appointment, by the Office of Thrift Supervision, of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as receiver of PFF Bank &amp;amp; Trust (the Bank) on November 21, 2008 and the subsequent acquisition of all of the assets and most of the liabilities of the Bank by U.S. Bank, National Association from the FDIC as receiver. Item 2.04 Triggering Events that Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement. The Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing described above will result in an event of default under the terms of the letter agreement, as amended, relating to the Companys secured term loan with a commercial bank and the entire principal and, upon this event of default, any accrued but unpaid principal thereunder will be declared immediately due and payable. The bankruptcy filing will also result in an event of default under the terms of the indentures governing the floating rate trust preferred securities issued by PFF Bancorps unconsolidated special purpose trusts, PFF Bancorp Capital Trust I, PFF Bancorp Capital Trust II, and PFF Bancorp Capital Trust III. Upon the occurrence of this event of default, the entire principal and any premium and any accrued but unpaid principal will be declared immediately due and payable without further action by either the trustee or the holders of the trust preferred securities
