European shares dropped sharply Friday, with investors worried about the deteriorating economy as HBOS warned of rising impairment charges and as a $14 billion bailout package for the U.S. auto industry fell apart in the Senate.The pan-European Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index fell 3.4% to 196.88, wiping out all of the gains made this week, with the banking component of the index down 6.6%.'I think that people are jumpy about the general economic backdrop,' said Edmund Shing, strategist at BNP Paribas, speaking about Friday's market action.HBOS shares plummeted 19.3% in London. The lender said its bad debt charge soared over 70% to around 5 billion pounds ($7.5 billion) in the last couple of months, as credit quality deteriorated sharply and asset prices fell further.Lloyds TSB , which is in the process of buying HBOS, fell 17.4%. See related London Markets. Read more on HBOS.Investors were also eyeing gloomy comments from J.P. Morgan's chief executive, as well as news that Bank of America will cut between 30,000 to 35,000 jobs and that former Nasdaq Stock Market Chairman Bernard Madoff was arrested and charged with securities fraud. Read more on Bank of America. Read more on J.P. Morgan. See full story on Madoff arrest.Other banks trading lower included Santander , down 8.8%, UBS , down 9.4% and Royal Bank of Scotland , down 15.7%.On a national level, the U.K. FTSE 100 index fell 3.2% to 4,248.67, the German DAX 30 index fell 3.1% to 4,623.10, and the French CAC-40 index dropped 3.7% to 3,164.40.Asian, U.S. markets also dropAsian markets also tumbled and U.S. stocks fell again on Friday. See Asia Markets. See Thursday's U.S. Market Snapshot.A proposal aimed at rescuing U.S. automakers struggling to cope with contracting economic growth failed to gain full approval on Thursday. Read more on autos. However, U.S. market sentiment later improved slightly after the White House said it may use existing bailout funds to rescue the automakers. See full story on auto bailout alternative.'People are concerned about the failure of a big U.S. carmaker and what effect it will have on unemployment. Unemployment is already shooting up and what they don't want is to see it get any worse,' said Shing.Automakers fell in Europe after the initial news of the bailout's failure in the Senate, with Daimler down 5.6% and BMW down 1.7%. Autoliv shares fell 12.1% after the company said it expects a 'dramatic' drop in sales in December.Meanwhile, oil producers were also adding pressure, as Total fell 5.5%, and ENI dropped 5.6%, after oil futures gave back some of the previous session's sharp gains with a $2.64 drop to $45.35 a barrel.'Fears of a further leg down in global growth prospects sent commodity prices lower,' said strategists at RBC Capital Markets.Alcatel-Lucent to cut jobsElsewhere, shares in telecom equipment firm Alcatel-Lucent slid 12.4%.The world's largest maker of telecommunications equipment said Friday it plans to cut 1,000 management jobs as part of an effort to save one billion euros ($1.33 billion) over the next two years.The firm's new Chief Executive Ben Verwaayen also gave more specific guidance for 2009. Adjusted operating profit will be around break-even next year, he said, even as the market for telecoms equipment declines between 8% and 12% at constant exchange rates.That's a much more pessimistic forecast than that of rival Nokia Siemens Networks, which last month said it expects global demand for telecom gear to fall 5%. See full story.Nokia shares fell 3.6%, Siemens shares fell 3.4%, and Ericsson shares dropped 6%.
