HONG KONG, Dec 15 (Reuters) - At 0315 GMT the benchmark Hang Seng Index was 3.3 percent higher at 15,236.26. The China Enterprises Index of top locally listed mainland Chinese firms had risen 2.7 percent to 8,118.17. Here are some stocks on the move in early trade: * Bulk shippers vaulted after the Baltic Dry Index, which measures the changes in the cost of shipping commodities, rallied 7.5 percent on Friday. The global freight index bulked up 15 percent last week after dropping a massive 93 percent this year on mounting worries over lower demand for raw materials amid a global economic recession. China Cosco, the country's leading shipping conglomerate, gained 7.4 percent while China Shipping Development added 7.6 percent. * China Construction Bank, fell 1.5 percent on a local newspaper report that Bank of America was planning to sell some of its shares in the Chinese lender to raise $3 billion. But a source close to the Chinese bank told Reuters on Monday, the report was untrue. Bank of America, which currently owns 44.71 billion H-shares or 19.13 percent of the issued share capital of China Construction Bank, aims to sell some of the Chinese bank shares at more than a 10 percent discount to raise up to $3 billion, Apple Daily reported, citing market sources. * Shares in BOC Hong Kong dropped 5 percent on Monday as Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock to underweight from equal-weight after the bank issued a profit warning late on Friday. BOC Hong Kong, a unit of Bank of China, expected its 2008 net profit to fall 'considerably' due to a tough global economic environment and growing volatility in major financial markets, the bank said on Friday. Its parent had agreed to extend a $2.5 billion subordinated credit facility to boost the subsidiary's capital base, a move which is seen creating an overhang on the local lender's book value. Morgan Stanley estimated about a HK$1 billion loss ($129 million) for the bank in the second half of 2008. (Reporting by Parvathy Ullatil; Editing by Jacqueline Wong) ASIA-PACIFIC STOCK MARKETS: Pan-Asia...... Japan........ S.Korea.... S.E. Asia............ Hong Kong... Taiwan..... Australia/NZ......... India....... China...... OTHER MARKETS: Wall Street........... Gold......... Currency.. Eurostocks........... Oil........... JP bonds... ADR Report.......... LME metals.. US bonds... Stocks News US... Stocks News Europe... DIARIES &amp;amp; DATA: IPO diary &amp;amp; data Asia earnings diary U.S. earnings diary European diary Taiwan diary Wall Street Week Ahead Eurostocks Week Ahead World forecasts TOP NEWS: For top Asian company news, double click on: U.S. company news European company news Forex news Global Economy news Technology news Telecoms news Media news Banking news Politics/General news Asia Macro data A multimedia version of Reuters Top News is available at: http://topnews.session.rservices.com LIVE PRICES &amp;amp; DATA: World Stocks Currency rates Dow Jones/NASDAQ Nikkei FTSE 100 Debt Keywords: MARKETS HONGKONG STOCKS (Reuters Messaging: parvathy.ullatil.reuters.com@reuters.net; +852 2843-6415) COPYRIGHT Copyright  
