HONG KONG, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Hong Kong shares jumped 5.3 percent on Monday, with Chinese banks and property counters notching up strong gains as talk swirled about further measures to protect growth in the world's fastest-growing economy. 'There is a lot of talk about support measures from China, including buying up more bank shares, a rescue package for the stock market and other steps to boost private consumption,' said Peter Lai, director with DBS Vickers. At 0320 GMT the benchmark Hang Seng Index was 736.43 points higher at 14,582.52. Index heavyweight China Mobile led gains with a 5 percent jump, building on Friday's rally after Merrill Lynch upgraded the stock to buy from neutral and raised its target price to HK$90. The stock was at HK$79.35 in late morning trade. Gains were also supported by lower oil prices and the rescue plan for U.S. automakers, both providing some relief to investors shocked by last week's unemployment numbers which showed half a million job losses in world's largest economy in November. 'The U.S. auto industry rescue has also come as good news for markets in the region but people are still worried about recession, recovery and unemployment,' said Lai. The China Enterprises Index of top locally listed mainland Chinese firms had risen 6.1 percent to 7,880.50. Chinese bank stocks soared on hopes of further support measures after a report in the China Securities Journal said China may cut business tax for banks to offset the pressure on their margins following a series of interest rate cuts this year. China Construction Bank vaulted 7.3 percent while top lender ICBC added 5.2 percent. No.5 lender Bank of Communications gained 6.2 percent. 'The tax cut rumour, coupled with the recent purchases by Huijin of shares in the three large banks in the A-share market, should provide some short-term excitement,' said Jasmine Lai, analyst with DBS Vickers on Monday. 'We may upgrade the sector back to neutral from slightly cautious if the rumour proves to be true.' Property counters also climbed on Monday as investors awaited policy announcements from a key meeting of senior government officials in China. China Overseas Land Investment climbed 10.7 percent while Guangzhou R&amp;amp;F Properties soared 13.7 percent. (Reporting by Parvathy Ullatil; Editing by Jonathan Hopfner) ASIA-PACIFIC STOCK MARKETS: Pan-Asia...... Japan........ S.Korea.... S.E.  Asia............ Hong Kong... Taiwan..... Australia/NZ......... India....... China...... OTHER MARKETS: Wall Street........... Gold......... Currency..  Eurostocks........... Oil........... JP bonds... ADR Report.......... LME metals.. US bonds... Stocks News US... Stocks News Europe... DIARIES &amp;amp; DATA: IPO diary &amp;amp; data Asia earnings diary U.S. earnings diary European diary Taiwan diary Wall Street Week Ahead Eurostocks Week Ahead World forecasts TOP NEWS: For top Asian company news, double click on: U.S. company news European company news Forex news Global Economy news Technology news Telecoms news Media news Banking news Politics/General news Asia Macro data A multimedia version of Reuters Top News is available at: http://topnews.session.rservices.com LIVE PRICES &amp;amp; DATA: World Stocks Currency rates Dow Jones/NASDAQ Nikkei FTSE 100 Debt Hong Kong Dollar LME price overview Keywords: MARKETS HONGKONG STOCKS (Reuters Messaging: parvathy.ullatil.reuters.com@reuters.net; +852 2843-6415) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.. 
