       citi, AIG, Bank of America are never-Ending black holes of stupidity  DateMonday, January 19, 2009 at 06:37AM thedailybail.squarespace.com    Hold the grammar and punctuation...just a rant with a side of pain, please.  It's called: the 'stupidest' bought the 'stupider' who had already bought the 'stupid'.  Take a wild guess who is the 'stupidest'.  This was originally posted in the comments section of a ken lewis story...  "i think some of the bailouts have been necessary as well...there are so many bailouts of so many industries that each one needs to be debated on its own merits...  the airlines have been getting help for years and i'm ok with that...it's usually just a few billion every few years since 911 and we need functional air travel so it passes the smell test...  this bank stuff is super iffy though...it's shadier than hell really...i'll give you the example i haven't written about yet but really pisses me off...AIG...it's a friggin' black hole...around $150 billion at last check...and AIG was NOT originally going to be saved..we kept saying no and no until their final night before declaring bankruptcy and suddenly we decide to save them...  it turns out that goldman sachs had used AIG to hedge over $300 billion of their asets...so if AIG went under then goldman would lose the billions it paid AIG in insurance payments on those assets...  and on the first day of the AIG conservatorship, goldman got a $37 billion dollar check from AIG/the taxpayer...then hedge funds who also used AIG to insure their assets have gotten about $40 billion of our money...and european banks and other us banks have received the remaining $60 billion in payouts from AIG/the taxpayer...  but debate is good...there are reasons to save certain companies...i agree with this...it's the money to bank of america, aig, goldman, citi, that really bothers me...  i don't mind re-capitalizing the relatively good banks at all..pnc has gotten a bunch of cash and i'm cool with that..as well as US Bancorp and many, many others that were in pretty good shape...  but citi is a never ending black hole of stupidity and so is bank of america..their buys of countrywide and merrill lynch have proven to be the dumbest bank purchases ever (and they bought both of them just last year for inflated prices)...except perhaps for countrywide's earlier purchase of golden west financial at the peak of the sub-prime bubble...the stupider buys the stupid i guess...and then the Gubmint, the stupidest of all buys the stupider who had already bought the stupid......translated: countrywide was stupid for buying golden west (hilarious banned Saturday Night Live Bailout sketch here), bank of america was 'stupider' for buying countrywide and merrill lynch (not to mention at premiums), and our Gubmint was the 'stupidest' of all for basically buying bank of america...and just to show that this stupidity was not a fluke, we had already purchased both AIG and Citi, not to mention phony and fraudie (fannie mae and freddie mac)...  bank of america played a bad hand and lost..and it should fail...let wells fargo benefit from the fact that they didn't act foolishly...BofA assets could be sold to the highest bidder...just like with wachovia...it could have happened pretty smoothly...wachovia changeover was seemless...  i just think that citi and BofA were so poorly manged that they should suffer the consequences...  
