AUSTRALIAN business confidence is rapidly deteriorating as a result of the global financial crisis, with almost two thirds of companies participating in a new survey reporting a decline in sales. The special Australian Industry Group (Ai Group) survey of 303 manufacturing, service and construction companies shows the crisis is biting and the situation is set to worsen in the coming months.   About 60 per cent of surveyed companies said the crisis had had a negative impact on their sales. Of those, one-third reported a strongly negative impact. 'In this first assessment of the impact of the crisis on the real economy, it is deeply worrying that so many businesses are expressing concern on so many fronts,' Ai Group chief executive Heather Ridout said. 'The projections for new orders and investment are particularly worrying, as these are critical pointers to the impacts over the months ahead.' A quarter of surveyed companies reported a strongly negative impact on new orders and 38 per cent per cent a moderately negative impact on new orders.   More than half of businesses reported negative impacts on capital expenditure and many said they had been forced to scale back plans for future investment. 'This survey, combined with anecdotal evidence from a wide cross-section of sources, confirms that we are in for a rough ride,' Ms Ridout said. 'It suggests very strongly that the malaise has spread to the real economy and that we are yet to feel the full impacts.' The jobs outlook is also grim, according to the latest Olivier Job Index, which surveys job ads on the internet.   The index fell 4.42 per cent in October and is down 6.16 per cent on this time last year - the first fall in annual growth since 2003.   Olivier Group director Robert Olivier said the fall was across almost every industry, and the rate of decline was accelerating. 'This will inevitably flow through to the official unemployment rate,' he said. Meanwhile, the Federal Government today called on banks to pass on to consumers as much as possible of this week's expected interest rate cut.   The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) is tipped to announce an official cut of 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, on Tuesday. 'Our position is clear: the banks should pass on as much as they can of any increase at any time,' Assistant Treasurer Chris Bowen told Channel 10. 'Of course, there have been interest rate reductions outside of the official interest rate reductions and the banks have indicated that in large part it's due to the confidence that's been restored in Australian banking due to our bank guarantee.' Future Fund chairman David Murray today rejected suggestions the $63 billion fund could help bail out troubled mortgage-based investment funds.   Many funds remain frozen after investors started moving their assets to banks covered by the Government's bank deposits guarantee. 
