National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB) will place shares with institutions at $20 each, after its offer was oversubscribed following 'overwhelming' demand, the head of the bank's Australian operations Ahmed Fahour told AAP.  NAB announced the $2 billion placement to institutions and sophisticated investors earlier Monday.  It took just one hour to build the book from the fixed price offer of $20 per share, he said.  The pricing is equivalent to a 9.7 per cent discount to NAB's closing share price on Friday of $22.15.  The books closed at 1230 AEDT after NAB received a very strong response to the placement, which would allow the bank to pursue organic growth opportunities, Mr Fahour said.  Our capital raising plan was based around underwriting the shortfalls in our dividend reinvestment plan (DRP) for the final fiscal 2008 dividend and the first half for fiscal 2009 dividend, NAB deputy chief executive Michael Ullmer told AAP. 'If at any time there was the opportunity to raise an equivalent amount of capital or more through a share placement we would do that, providing the discount required was modest and we were able to achieve equity between shareholders,' he said. 'So the price we went to the market today was a fixed price of $20 (a share), which is a 9.7 per cent discount.' This discount is much lower than that applied to other share placements around the world, he Mr Ullmer said. 'It's a lower discount that we've seen in our local market with a number of financial institutions in recent times.' 'We decided in the current environment to have the certainty of raising the capital straight away ... but do it at a modest discount seems to us to be a compelling equation from a shareholder perspective,' Mr Ullmer said. NAB's institutional placement was fully underwritten by investment banks Goldman Sachs JBWere, Merrill Lynch and UBS AG, and came on the back of improving domestic market conditions. 'The offer is significantly oversubscribed,' Mr Ullmer said. 'I believe the books closed at 1230 AEDT, and the underwriters are now going through the allocation process.' NAB said it reserved the right to limit applications if total demand exceeded $250 million.  The bank will make an announcement to the market on Monday afternoon about the amount raised, he added.  NAB's Tier 1 ratio is expected to rise to eight per cent after the capital raising.
