IT WILL be as simple as a phone call to the bank. After yesterday's interest rate cut, Anesh Naidoo will pull a little money out of his mortgage repayments and move it into his credit card debt. The consumer market will not see a cent. 'That's our next big debt,' Mr Naidoo said of the $7000 on his credit card, a debt that built over three years but intensified in April when he picked up a mortgage of more than $300,000. 'We just thought that was our immediate priority, to reduce that quickly.' Mr Naidoo is part of the thrift paradox - relieved by the rate cut but worried by unemployment forecasts, reducing debt rather than spending. 'You need to hedge your bets,' he said. 'And getting your debt down is one of the most important things to do.' Rory Robertson, an interest rates strategist at Macquarie Bank, said the rate cut would stimulate the economy with some discretionary spending. But interest rates on credit cards have not been cut at the same rate as other interest rates. Mr Robertson said people would still be shaken by the financial crisis, saving for rainy days, and that saving would make for rainy days. 'All around the world, consumers and businesses have been hit simultaneously with the same thought - this massive impression of financial turmoil,' he said. 'Everyone's simultaneously hunkering down and creating the problem they are trying to avoid.' Mr Naidoo will do more than many in the response to the cut. He will call his bank to make a reduction in his payment - something most institutions require customers to do before cutting repayment levels in line with rate reductions.   About half the customers at the Commonwealth Bank decided against reducing their repayments after previous rate cuts.   At the National Australia Bank, figures are less clear but 90 per cent of customers chose to pay more than their monthly minimum in an attempt to reduce their mortgage schedule. 'From a monetary policy perspective, that's what they are trying to do,' Mr Naidoo said of the Reserve Bank's attempt to stimulate the economy. 'But in this climate very few people will be spending their money on discretionary purchases.' 
