September's surplus, the biggest in more than a decade, was driven by a surge in commodity exports amid a weakening Australian dollar.  data out today showed a $1.46 billion seasonally adjusted trade surplus, marking an 18 per cent jump from August's downwardly revised $1.24 billion surplus.   It was the biggest surplus since the June 1997 print of $1.54 billion, and the second largest on record.   Exports in September rose eight per cent, much of it due to a strong rise in non-rural commodity exports, including a 20 per cent jump in metal ores and minerals and a 14 per cent increase in coal exports.   Meanwhile, imports climbed 7 per cent, spurred on by a 20 per cent jump in demand for fuel products, in a month when the Australian dollar was still trading above 80 US cents.   Commonwealth Bank senior economist Michael Workman said Australia was likely to return trade surpluses of more than $1 billion for the next four to six months, as a slowing local economy dampened demand for imports. 'It looks the import side would be the one that weakens a bit more,' he said. 'Traditionally, if we have a slowdown underway imports tend to suffer, particularly on the consumption side.' ANZ senior economist Katie Dean said while commodity exports would grow steadily this year, the story would be less upbeat in 2009 as the world economy slowed, and contract prices for minerals like iron ore and coal were renegotiated in weaker Australian dollar terms. 'We'll see exports in general weaken over the next six months because of a weakening in the global economy,' she said. 'The big test for the trade balance will be in the first half of 2009 when we expect contract prices for commodities will be negotiated.' Ms Dean said exports surged in value terms in September because contract prices for key commodities were negotiated in mid-2008 when the Australian dollar was worth about 96 US cents. 'When the Australian dollar fell, the commodities sector was well supported,' she said. The Australian dollar hit a 25-year high of 98.49 US cents in mid July.   It then fell below 80 US cents in September, before hitting a five-and-a-half year low of 60.12 US cents in late October marking a 40 per cent decline in three months.   NabCapital senior economist David de Garis said a weakening Australian dollar in September had helped the export sector.   On the imports side, he said fuel accounted for a third of the increase while consumer good demand was static.   It was the biggest surplus since the June 1997 print of $1... Click Headline for Full Story', 'http://www.news.com.au/heraldsun/story/0,21985,24606837-664,00.html', 1)' alt='Add to MySpace ' title='Add to MySpace ' &gt;Add to MySpace 
