 CANBERRA, Australia Australian house prices rose at their slowest pace in almost three years, September retail sales slid, and job advertisements fell for a sixth consecutive month in new evidence Monday that the economy is slowing.  House prices in state capitals fell by 1.8 percent on average in the three months to September for an annual growth rate of just 2.8 percent, the latest Australian Bureau of Statistic's house price index shows.  Other bureau data showed consumer spending is also feeling the pinch from the economic slowdown, with retail trade falling by a seasonally adjusted 1.1 percent in September, its biggest monthly fall in three years.  The retail result was worse than market forecasts of a 0.5 percent slump, as dives on the share market slowed consumer spending.  Job advertisements fell during October for the sixth straight month, with firms less eager to hire staff in an economic slowdown.  Job ads in major newspapers and on the Internet fell by 5.9 percent to a weekly average of 231,135 ads per week, the latest ANZ survey has found.  The Reserve Bank of Australia is widely expected to cut its cash rate by a further half a percentage point to 5.5 percent when the central bank's board meets Tuesday to help fend off chances of a recession.  At its last monthly meeting on Oct. 8, the bank cut the rate by a full percentage point.  Inflation in Australia last month climbed to 5 percent, its highest level in more than a decade.  But analysts expect that central bankers will likely keep slashing interest rates because of the global economic downturn.  Treasurer Wayne Swan said he expects Australia's economy to continue growing, despite the global financial crisis. 'The government does expect to see positive growth because Australia is in a far better position than just about any other country in the world,' Swan told reporters in his hometown of Brisbane. 'We are not immune from the fallout of the global financial crisis. You can see that in the data today, but we are in a far better position than many other countries around the world,' he said.  @Nyx.CommentBody@  Disclaimer  The Charlotte Observer is pleased to be able to offer its users the opportunity to make comments and hold conversations online. However, the interactive nature of the internet makes it impracticable for our staff to monitor each and every posting.  Since charlotteobserver.com does not control user submitted statements, we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted on our website. In addition, we remind anyone interested in making an online comment that responsibility for statements posted lies with the person submitting the comment, not The Charlotte Observer.   If you find a comment offensive, clicking on the exclamation icon will flag the comment for review by the administrators, we are counting on the good judgment of all our readers to help us. 
