 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   QAN, DJS, CEU, HVN, BXB, PMV, TLS, NPX, AIZ, FXJ, APN,   AAP 2008-11-25   Premier Investments Ltd chairman Solomon Lew says the federal government is courting 'economic disaster' unless it goes into deficit.  Mr Lew, a former Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) board member, also called for the central bank to cut interest rates further by a full percentage point and for the government to halve the tax rate on the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and cut fuel excise.  Mr Lew said on Tuesday the government and RBA needed to kickstart the economy to provide immediate relief from the worst trading conditions in the past 45 years. 'There is no question, they (the RBA) should cut by a further one per cent, and if they don't they could lead us into economic disaster,' Mr Lew told journalists after Premier's annual general meeting in Melbourne. 'There needs to be drastic relief and more than one act to kickstart the economy and to get the confidence back.' Mr Lew said 'massive' government spending programs were needed immediately to prevent a jump in unemployment, which meant the government needed to go into deficit. 'The government will not survive if it doesn't go into deficit,' he said. 'There is no doubt they will not be able to manage the economy without going into deficit.' 'I think the government is kidding themselves if they let this go too long. 'I think they have to move now - if they move in six or 12 months time it will be too late, the damage will be too great.' Mr Lew says he has been in talks with several ministers to allow greater accelerated depreciation for companies, incentives for businesses to invest and keep hiring employees.  He said the government should cut the GST by half to five per cent to immediately boost the economy. 'I think if they took the GST down to five per cent instead of 10 per cent that would help immediately and would give an injection of cash to people who have purchasing power,' he said. 'It's very nice that they're building a lot of swimming pools and talking about new parks. 'But I think we're talking about people keeping their jobs and staying above the waterline.' Mr Lew said he intended to put the GST idea to the government. 'Another move that would help the retail market and the economy in general would be to reduce excise on fuel - that would be a major move,' he said. Mr Lew said the downturn was not confined to the retail sector and that small businesses were being squeezed by Australian banks charging higher fees on loan repayments. 'The banks have got something to answer for in this particular climate,' Mr Lew said. 'They created a situation whereby they made these massive loans to companies and now, in order to regain some of their money back, they're applying higher fees on smaller businesses - it shouldn't be allowed.' Premier, owner of the retailer Just Group, says Just's fiscal 2009 earnings before interest, tax and amortisation (EBITA) will be around 10 per cent lower than its fiscal 2008 EBITA of $90.2 million.  The company is aiming to pay a full year dividend of 29 cents for fiscal 2009.  Shares in Premier were trading 10 cents or 3.1 per cent higher at $3.33 by 1415 AEDT on Tuesday.
