SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Evidence of a weakening Chinese economy, feeble data from Australia and Britain and a darkening corporate outlook in the United States reinforced fears of a prolonged global recession on Tuesday.  China's inflation fell to a 17-month low of 4 percent in October, while trade figures were expected to show slowing imports, both serving as signs of a cooling economy and dampening hopes that China's growth will help cushion the impact of the global downturn.  'It shows the Chinese economy is in a sharp slowdown -- production is falling, so is demand,' said Zhang Yongjun, an economist with a government think-tank in Beijing, after the inflation data.  A fresh wave of gloom gripped equity markets as investors, already spooked by worries about the worsening outlook for U.S. companies ranging from Goldman Sachs to Starbucks, sold shares in Japan, Australia and Hong Kong.  Financial bookmakers predicted major European markets would open down about 1.5 percent.  Expectations profits will be hit hard by a recession some economists warn could rival the pain of 1981-82 cut short a brief spell of optimism on Monday that had been sparked by China's weekend announcement of a nearly $600 billion (383 billion pounds) stimulus package.  'Worrying corporate news from the U.S., plus .....continued below starts ends  suggestions that the recession will be longer and deeper than previously thought, are adding to the downside,' Matt Buckland, dealer at CMC Markets in London, wrote in a note.  U.S. shares fell on Monday after Deutsche Bank said the equity value of once-mighty General Motors was now zero, sending its stock to a 62-year low, and analysts warned Goldman could post its first quarterly loss.  'It's ugly out there and it's not going to be over tomorrow. It's going to take some time,' said Kurt Brunner, portfolio manager at Swarthmore Group in Philadelphia.  The New York Times reported President-elect Barack Obama urged President George W. Bush to back immediate emergency aid for car makers at their first post-election meeting at the White House.  On Monday the United States had pledged more support for AIG, increasing a rescue package for the stricken insurer by $27 billion to $150 billion and easing its terms.  And the fragility of consumer confidence in the world's biggest economy was underlined when electronics seller Circuit City filed for bankruptcy -- the biggest retailer to do so since Kmart in 2002 -- and coffee chain Starbucks reported disappointing quarterly earnings.  'FEAR REIGNS'  What began as a financial crisis last year, when bank lending dried up in the face of huge losses in the U.S. housing market, is morphing into a broad downturn in the developed world. New powers such as China have been caught up in the domino effect.  A survey of business conditions from National Australia Bank showed confidence at a record low, stoking expectations the country is heading for its first recession since the early 1990s.  Page: 12next  Latest Headlines  2008 Reuters Click for restrictions starts ends starts ends  There's a whole range of useful information to choose from including investing, retirement and family finances  Thousands of businesses could save up to 50% by switching to a cheaper gas and electricity providers See how...  Keep up-to-date with the share price movements of all your favourite companies listed on the stock exchange  All businesses need to be insured - from shop and retail to professional indemnity, get the best possible cover  To get your idea off the ground  or get through a sticky patch, you might have to borrow. Get an instant loan quote  Most Popular Stories  Page Footer  Text onlyGraphical version of this page   Advertise   Press   Work at Tiscali   Site Map   Service Status   Help   Contact Us   Tiscali 2008  IT   NET  Access keys  You will need to use different key combinations in order to use access keys depending on your internet browser, find out which on our accessibility page.  (0) Navigate to Accessibility page.  (1) Navigate to Home page.  (2) Navigate to My email.  (3) Navigate to My Account.  (4) Navigate to Site Map page.  (5) Navigate to Contact us page.  (6) Navigate to Members channel.  (7) Navigate to Services channel.  (8) Navigate to News &amp;amp; Info channel.  (9) Navigate to Entertainment channel.  ([) Skip down to the Primary navigation block.  (]) Skip down to the more links within this section block.  (=) Bypass all navigation and jump to the content.  (x) Text only version of this page.  
