conomists  10:31am   Market down at midday following Wall St  10:27am   GME cuts jobs, reduces project spending  09:38am   WA small businesses find TAFE solutions  09:17am   Dollar opens firmer as US dented  09:14am   Support for lifting of WA's uranium ban  09:06am   Market opens lower as Wall St tumbles  06:55am   G20 fails to allay US investor fears  06:55am   OPEC ready to help prop up oil prices  06:55am   Today's Business Headlines  The Reserve Bank of Australia is worried about a slowdown in the world economy, which means more rate cuts are coming, economists say.  The central bank slashed interest rates by 75 basis points this month, taking the cash rate to a three and a half year low of 5.25 per cent.  The minutes of that November 4 board meeting have revealed policymakers were concerned about how global financial problems would affect the Australian economy.  'Key factors in members' consideration of the policy decision were the continuing poor conditions in financial markets, the significant deterioration in the outlook for the world economy, with implications for Australia, and the likelihood that inflation in Australia would fall over the year ahead,' the minutes said.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia senior economist John Peters said the RBA was particularly worried about how a slowing US economy would hurt Australia.  'They're concerned about the growth outlook and they're really trying to ensure the economy doesn't follow the Anglo economies into recession,' he said.  Mr Peters said the RBA was likely to cut rates by 50 basis points in December, and keep cutting the cash rate until it fell to four per cent.  'They'll continue their policy of chunky (rate cuts),' he said, adding the RBA wanted monetary policy that was looser than neutral.  The RBA contemplated a smaller rate cut of 50 basis points but the risks of weakening demand prompted the board to lower its target for the cash rate by 75 basis points, the minutes said.  Following the Melbourne Cup day meeting, interest rates were lowered to 5.25 per cent.  The cash rate was last at this level between December 2003 and March 2005.  'At the meeting, the governor proposed that members consider the choice between a reduction of 50 basis points and one of 75 basis points,' the minutes said on Tuesday.  Mr Peters said the RBA was not concerned about inflation and was focused on maximising economic growth and minimising a possible rise in the jobless rate.  'They're more concerned about the downside risk to growth than the upside inflation risk,' he said.  'Central banks would rather deal with inflation than deflationary problems.'  Growth in developed and developing economies had deteriorated further, with the board noting the slowdown, particularly in China, would hamper growth in Australia.  Since the board met on November 4, there has been more gloomy economic news, with more developed countries announcing their economies had fallen into recession.  The 15-member eurozone went into recession, while Australia's largest export market, Japan, announced on Monday it had two consecutive quarters of economic contraction.  Mr Peters said further rate cuts, the federal government's $10.4 billion fiscal stimulus package and a weaker Australian dollar would cushion Australian from the effects of a global economic downturn.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.  
