Borrowers will be hoping that the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) apparent haste to lower interest rates this month spills over to the next board meeting on December 2.  Economists expect at least a 50 basis point reduction next month, but more are starting to contemplate a 75 basis point cut in light of Monday's tepid retail sales numbers and as another survey showed business conditions at their worst in at least 12 years. 'A larger 75 basis point move is possible, particularly if we see a further marked deterioration in global economic and/or financial market conditions,' ANZ economist Riki Polygenis said.  Financial markets are pricing in the risk of an even bigger move.  The RBA cut the cash rate by 75 basis points to 5.25 per cent at the last board meeting, beating most economists' expectations.  The cut earlier this month was on top of 125 basis points worth of reductions since September.  Minutes from the RBA's November meeting released on Tuesday show officials at the central bank had initially recommended a 50 basis point rate cut in a paper prepared for its board members.  But by the time of the meeting, Governor Glenn Stevens was offering a choice of 50 or 75 basis points given the fast deteriorating outlook for both the domestic and international economies.  Members agreed that a further sizeable reduction was appropriate, despite lingering concerns over the inflation outlook. 'This would enable a further meaningful reduction in rates paid by borrowers and could assist confidence among consumers and businesses,' the minutes said. The monthly minutes also said recent falls in house prices and equity markets had led to a decline in household net worth of about eight per cent since the start of the year. 'The falls in equity prices thus far in the December quarter meant the fall was now larger ... there were few precedents for the current developments in household wealth.' ABN AMRO economist Felicity Emmett said the minutes didn't give any clear signal on future policy decisions. '(But) the past two meetings show that the board is willing to react to last-minute developments, showing both a capacity and willingness to surprise with a larger cut,' she said. RBA officials will get two chances on Wednesday to steer market thinking on the interest rate outlook.  Assistant Governor Malcolm Edey will make an afternoon address in Sydney, while Mr Stevens will deliver a speech at a dinner in Melbourne.  Still, small business is demanding that retail banks pass on a greater share of cuts in official interest rates. 'Interest rates remain an impediment for small business investment,' Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) economics spokesman Greg Evans told reporters in Canberra.  ACCI's latest small business survey found conditions deteriorated over the September quarter to be at their worst since the survey began in 1996, and also reveals expectations of a further weakening in economic growth over the next 12 months.  Mr Evans said it was clear from the survey that business was crying out for greater assistance in combating the impact of the global financial crisis, and reiterated a call for a further fiscal stimulus package from the federal government. 'Given the current world economic slowdown, easing of cost pressures is needed, as well as added stimulus such as tax cuts to encourage business investment,' he said. 
