McDonalds' workers not lovin' it  The ongoing pay dispute between fast food restaurant McDonald's and its workers is set to heat up today.  NZ winemakers look to America for growth  Judging in the Air New Zealand wine awards is currently underway.  We have heard a lot about a slowing residential property market but how is the commercial property sector faring?  An update of the markets with Phil Hunter of First NZ Capital.  Economist: Banks will struggle to match rate cut point for point  The Reserve Bank of Australia's rate cut and New Zealand's latest deficit figure are forefront in many economists' minds.  Despite aggressive cuts, RBA tipped to reduce rates further  The Reserve Bank of Australia surprised the market yesterday when it cut interest rates three quarters of a percent.  Federated Farmers call for political recognition of farmings importance  Federated Farmers say farming is New Zealands future and is calling for political parties to recognise this.  Weldon and Skilling issue revised crisis strategy  How will the New Zealand economy fare as it teeters on the edge of the world financial crisis?  How should NZ promote itself during the recession?  How important is maintaining brand promotion and advertising in a time of recession?  How is the racing industry faring in the recession?  Being Melbourne Cup day, many of us will have a flutter today. For some it may be the only time they think about the racing industry.  Financial crisis pummels Europe  World leaders may trace the falling economic dominos back to America's subprime mortgage collapse, but many overseas economies may be even more vulnerable than the US.  Kiwi company gives all profits to Cambodian village  From having his appendix removed in the Philippines without general anaesthetic, to being threatened by gang leaders in Sydney, Andrew Schick has experienced the challenges of charity work first hand.  Director fees a thorny issue in current market  Director's fees have been one of the more contentious issues in business over recent weeks.  NZ now in line with Australia's guarantee scheme  Finance minister Michael Cullen announced a funding guarantee for New Zealand banks borrowing from overseas investors on Saturday.  Rural update with Richard Loe  On the farming scene PGG Wrightson's merger plans with Silver Fern look doomed, and dairy prices continue to slump.  NZ downgraded in latest country risk ratings  In its latest country risk ratings Dun and Bradstreet has downgraded New Zealand as a result of the weaker economic outlook.  Paua industry fights back against poachers  Every year millions of dollars of stolen paua is sold illegally on the black market.  Banks agree to take it easy on homeowners, says Govt  The Government says major banks have agreed to go easy on customers struggling to repay their mortgages during the recession.  Guarded support for National's unemployment package  National has unveiled its rescue package for workers who lose their jobs in the current recession, and it is a highly targeted scheme that focuses on low and middle income workers, rather than covering all workers like the Labour plan unveiled yesterday.  Westfield opens massive shopping complex despite credit crunch  Europe's biggest inner-city shopping centre opened in London this morning, in the face of widespread fears that Britain is sinking into a deep recession.  
