Credit hangover threatens Australias stimulus plan  Michael Perry  Lower interest rates and government handouts may not boost spending and growth as Australians use cash to reduce debts  Reuters  A DECADE-long credit binge by Australians has left them struggling with a mountain of debt that may blunt central bank and government moves to stimulate the economy and avoid recession.  While the central bank has slashed official cash rates to encourage spending in the face of a global downturn, high and rising credit card rates are causing them to close their wallets.  Concern about household debt also looks set to limit the national governments A$10,4bn ($6,7bn) stimulus package when it starts flowing next month, with surveys showing Australians will not spend their share but pay off mortgages or other debt.  The fact that households are so indebted, particularly with credit cards, and household debt as a proportion of income is so high, there is a chance it is impeding monetary policy, Josh Williamson, senior analyst at TD Securities, said yesterday.  Over the past decade Australians have gone on a credit binge, their confidence underpinned by 16 years of consecutive economic growth, high employment, soaring house prices and low interest rates.  Australians have leveraged themselves like never before, buying shares and investment properties and taking out home-equity loans to pay for holidays, boats and cars.  In the past 10 years, total housing debt (owner and investor) has soared to A$981bn from A$236bn in 1998.  Credit card debt has quadrupled to A$44,6bn from A$11,6bn as the number of credit card accounts has soared 64% to 14,2-million.  However, economic optimism is now evaporating quickly as the global financial crisis starts to hit Australias shores.  Australians are becoming pessimistic and worried about job security, several surveys have shown, despite the fact that the local economy continues to grow and that few people have lost jobs or homes as a result of the credit crisis.  Reserve Bank of Australia governor Glenn Stevens has warned Australians not to talk themselves into a recession.  Given the underlying strengths of the economy, about the biggest mistake we could make would be to talk ourselves into unnecessary economic weakness, he said this week.  Still, economic growth is slowing rapidly. Some economists have pencilled in growth of just 1% next year, a sharp slowdown from 4% last year.  Neighbouring New Zealand, Japan and the euro zone are already in recession and the US is considered by economists also to be in recession.  Australias central bank has slashed official cash rates by 200 basis points since September and is widely expected by financial markets to cut rates again next month by a further 75 basis points, with further easing to about 3,5% expected next year.  Banks have followed with cuts in mortgage interest rates, giving Australians spare cash each month.  However, credit card interest rates have remained unchanged and in some cases have risen.  While home loan rates are about 7,5%, credit card rates average about 20%.  There is a possibility that some of the banks may be using credit card rates to help subsidise cutting mortgage interest rates  particularly considering its the mortgage interest rates that are much more politically sensitive, Williamson said.  While it is good to see mortgage rates coming down we also need to see cuts in credit cards.  A five-year study of more than 8000 Australian workers has found that 56% are finding it difficult to get by on their household income, or are just coping.  The University of Sydney study found 12% of households with income exceeding A$156000 a year do not make all their debt repayments on time, while one in four households earning less than A$78000 a year cannot pay their debt on time.  Many households rely on debt such as mortgages and credit cards to maintain their standard of living, says the report by the universitys Workplace Research Centre.  One in five workers report being unable to pay debts on time.  A survey by the Australian National Retailers Association has found that 40% of consumers will not spend their share of the governments A$8,7bn cash handout starting December 8, which is aimed at stimulating the retail sector.  The handout is the first tranche of the governments A$10,4bn stimulus package.  The association says the handout is aimed at a demographic that spends most of its income on living expenses and has been timed to encourage Christmas spending. But the survey of 1000 Australians found many planned either to save it or to use it to pay off debts.  Not even falling interest rates have budged peoples thinking  Australians are playing it safe with their money, says the associations chief, Margy Osmond.  Retailers hope official rates will be cut again next month to encourage Christmas spending, but they also want to see credit cards rates fall, arguing that plastic money is now one of the main ways Australians purchase goods and services.  However, high interest rates are stopping consumers using their credit cards, with card debt now growing at the slowest pace in 14 years, says CommSec Equity Economics.  CommSec chief economist Craig James says: Consumers are adopting a more conservative approach to credit cards in a clear attempt to cut spending and throw out debt.  
