The RBA said its November rate cut was motivated by continuing poor conditions in financial markets, significant deterioration in the outlook for the world economy and the likelihood inflation would fall over in the year ahead. The central bank cut rates by a larger than expected 75 basis points to 5.25%.  Minutes from the Reserve Bank of Australia's meeting on 4 September, said the paper prepared for the board recommended a further easing of monetary policy and suggested a reduction 50 basis points cut. But governor Glenn Stevens proposed that members consider the choice between a reduction of 50 basis points and one of 75 basis points. 'Members agreed that a further sizeable reduction in official interest rates was appropriate,' the minutes said. 'On balance, members judged that a reduction in the cash rate of 75 basis points was appropriate on this occasion.' The RBA said the reduction would enable a further meaningful reduction in rates paid by borrowers and could assist confidence among consumers and businesses.   In addition, given the changing balance of risks, the RBA noted there was an advantage in moving the setting of monetary policy quickly to a neutral position. 'Members were conscious of the high rate of inflation at present and of the need to bring it down over time, but felt that in the current environment a reduction of this size would not undermine that task.' As such, they judged that the policy action would strike the right balance between the need to return inflation to the target and the need to reduce the risk of an unduly sharp weakening of demand.  The minutes noted that world financial markets had remained turbulent over the past month, global equity prices had been volatile and had fallen further in net terms. 'There had also been very sharp exchange rate movements, including a large depreciation of the Australian dollar,' the minutes said. 'The availability of credit in global markets had continued to be tight, though members noted that the measures announced by governments to strengthen their financial systems should help to stabilise conditions over time.' The RBA said that data on the world economy indicated a further deterioration in economic conditions in the major industrial economies, and there had been further signs that China and other parts of the developing world were now slowing. 'In Australia, until recently, the overall path of economic activity had been roughly in line with the board's earlier expectations,' the board said. 'However, the marked deterioration in global financial conditions over the past couple of months, which had also had an effect on Australian financial markets and share prices, was likely to have a significant effect as well on business and consumer sentiment, and liaison information was reflecting this.' The RBA said this would probably lead to a significant curtailment of planned investment spending and caution on the part of households. 'Members judged that the recent reductions in interest rates on loans following earlier policy action, the depreciation of the exchange rate and the fiscal stimulus announced in October would cushion, but probably not fully offset, the negative forces on the domestic economy arising from deteriorating international conditions, lower commodity prices and lower household wealth,' the RBA minutes said. 'As such, members thought that domestic spending and activity would be weaker than earlier expected.' They noted that over the past month, the staff forecast for growth had been lowered and that, despite this, the most recent information suggested that the risks to the outlook remained to the downside. 'Members noted that consumer price inflation in Australia was again high in the September quarter, as had been expected. However, with domestic capacity pressures now easing and the outlook for much softer growth in demand and activity than had been seen until recently, members could reasonably expect that inflation in Australia would soon start to fall,' the RBA said. The RBA said global disinflationary forces from the slowdown in the world economy and lower commodity prices would assist in this regard. 'The depreciation of the exchange rate, however, meant that the decline of inflation to the target could take longer than previously thought,' the RBA said. 'While this could pose risks to inflationary expectations, these were regarded as manageable in the context of a generally disinflationary environment over the next couple of years.' The RBA board is next due to meet on Tuesday, 2 December 2008. 
