 A slew of corporate chiefs hung up their hats during the recent market turmoil - but most left Wall Street with their pockets full.  Makes me dislike the bailout even more, when all these CEOs still carved money with a rather shameful exit.     Alan Fishman Washington Mutual Lasted: 18 daysThe award for briefest tenure goes to Fishman, who took the helm at WaMu in early September as the bank's credit rating spiraled downward thanks to a portfolio of bad mortgage loans. Two and a half weeks later, the government seized WaMu, the nation's largest savings and loan, and sold it to JPMorgan Chase for cheap. Fishman, the former president of Sovereign Bank, snapped up a $7.5 million signing bonus and will skate out with more than $6 million in severance, according to an SEC filing.  Robert Steel Wachovia Lasted: 2 1/2 months (so far)Steel, a veteran of the U.S. Treasury Department, wasted no time after he took charge of Wachovia in reassuring anxious shareholders that he intended to keep the bank independent despite its crippling portfolio of adjustable rate mortgages. While Steel tried to distinguish Wachovia from WaMu, the latter bank's failure precipitated a drop in investor confidence. When Citigroup purchased the company's banking operations Sept. 29, Steel, whom Citi still calls Wachovia's CEO, lost command over the country's fourth-largest bank.  Robert Willumstad American International Group Lasted: 3 monthsWillumstad's stint as CEO of AIG, the world's biggest insurance company, was no more than a summer job. The executive was hired in June, and then ousted in September when the government seized control of the insurer, which had ventured into risky investments tied to mortgages. Willumstad couldn't save AIG, but he walked out with his head held high: He declined a $22 million severance package.  John Thain Merrill Lynch Lasted: 11 monthsShareholders were relieved when Thain engineered Merrill's $50 billion sale to Bank of America just as Lehman Brothers collapsed. But they weren't the only ones who derived comfort from the buyout, which saved one of Wall Street's biggest giants from an investor panic: Bloomberg reported that Thain, the former head of the New York Stock Exchange and a Goldman Sachs veteran, and his top two deputies may exit with nearly $200 million.  Richard Fuld, Jr. Lehman Brothers Lasted: 15 yearsUnlike many of his fellow CEOs - E. Stanley O'Neill of Merrill Lynch and Ken Thompson of Wachovia - Fuld made it to the end after spending more than 30 years at Lehman. He left with his reputation in tatters, largely blamed for bad bets on mortgage-backed securities and a sluggish response to the bank's unfolding crisis. But Fuld didn't leave empty-handed: Lehman gave him a $22 million bonus in March, and he pocketed about $500 million while leading the company.
