  What has been little noted in all this discussion about the financial crisis is effect it will have on the size of the United States government - apart from the doubling of the national debt. According to data I can find, for the year 2007, Fannie Mae had revenue of 45 billion dollars. Freddie Mac had revenue of 43 billion. According to USA Today;  The two companies hold some of the loans they buy and securities they bundle in their investment portfolios. Fannie Mae said its portfolio was $736.9 billion in May, highest since August 2005, while Freddie Mac said its portfolio was a record $770.4 billion in May. Including investments and guarantees, Fannie Mae&amp;#8217;s total book of business topped $3 trillion for the first time in May, twice its size at the beginning of 2002. With Freddie Mac&amp;#8217;s $2.2 trillion in investments and guarantees, the two have a hand in nearly half of the entire U.S. mortgage market.  It would seem, as of May, 2008, the United States government is the single largest holder of home mortgage debt on the planet; with a portfolio of $1.5 trillion, and combined investments and guarantees of $5.2 trillion. Taken by itself, this would likely make Washington the largest business concern on the planet Earth, the monopoly player in the U.S. mortgage debt industry, and, the market maker for all home mortgage loans. But, there is more: AIG, of which Washington is now proud owner of 80 percent equity, had revenue of 110 billion. According to one site:  American International Group, Inc. provides insurance and financial services in both the United States and abroad. One of the largest companies in the world by assets and employee size, AIG was a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average from April 1, 2004 to September 22, 2008.  Through its subsidiaries, its holdings can be divided into four sections: General Insurance, Life Insurance and Retirement Services, Financial Services, and Asset Management.  AIG is the world&amp;#8217;s largest aircraft leasing company. It has responsibility for over $60 billion in credit default swaps. AIG is already the largest individual operator inlife insurance world wide, and has a large presence in &amp;#8220;writing all lines of commercial property and casualty insurance, as well as various personal lines domestically and abroad.&amp;#8221; All totaled, according to Forbes.com:  AIG, with 103,000 employees and more than $1 trillion of assets, is more than an insurance company. It is arguably the biggest player in the financial services industry; a collapse, many fear, could be catastrophic.   The total revenues of these three companies are, therefore, approximately $200 billion, with total assets of more than $6.2 trillion. On January 27, 1996, President William Clinton delivered his address to the nation declaring in part: But we also face stiff challenges.  Challenges we must meet  and meet together if we are to preserve the American dream  for all Americans, maintain America&amp;#8217;s leadership for peace  and freedom, and continue to come together around our basic  values. These are the seven challenges I set forth Tuesday night &amp;#8212;  to strengthen our families, to renew our schools and expand  educational opportunity, to help every American who&amp;#8217;s willing  to work for it achieve economic security, to take our streets  back from crime, to protect our environment, to reinvent our  government so that it serves better and costs less, and to  keep America the leading force for peace and freedom  throughout the world. We will meet these challenges, not through big government.  The era of big government is over, but we can&amp;#8217;t go back to a  time when our citizens were just left to fend for themselves. &amp;#8220;The era of big government is over,&amp;#8221; said Mr. Clinton, still stinging from the battle with the Republican majority in Congress, and desperate to reposition his administration ahead of the November elections. Twelve years later, how completely wrong he turned out to be still hasn&amp;#8217;t dawned on this nation. 
