NEW YORK - A battle broke out Friday for control of Wachovia, as Wells Fargo agreed to pay $14.8 billion for the struggling bank, while Citigroup and federal regulators insisted that Citi's earlier and lower-priced takeover offer go forward.  Citigroup, which demanded that Wachovia call off its deal with Wells Fargo, said its agreement with Wachovia provides that the bank will not enter into any transaction with any party other than Citi or negotiate with anyone else. Barring legal action, the future of Wachovia will be determined by the bank's shareholders and regulators, which both have to approve a final deal. By law, he said the FDIC is required to find the least-costly resolution for taxpayers. The Wells Fargo deal would not rely on any assistance from the government.&amp;nbsp; The Federal Reserve, which has regulatory oversight of the three big banks, said it hasn't had time to review the proposed sale of Wachovia to Wells Fargo but will work to ensure that all creditors and depositors of Wachovia are protected.  Under Wells Fargo's deal, Wachovia shareholders would receive 0.1991 shares of Wells Fargo for every share of Wachovia stock they own, valuing Wachovia at about $7 per share. This is a nearly 80 percent premium over the stock's Thursday closing price of $3.91. Shares closed at $10 on Sept. 26, the last trading session before the deal with Citigroup was announced. Wells Fargo said it expects to take a $74 billion hit on Wachovia's $498 billion loan portfolio. That values the portfolio at 85 cents on the dollar. But the most troubled real estate loans, known as pick-a-pay  where borrowers got low introductory rates and were allowed to defer some interest payments until later years  are worth only an estimated 74 cents on the dollar, according to a fact sheet released by Wells Fargo.  The bank said it expects to incur the majority of credit costs in the next two years, and for the transaction to add meaningfully to earnings after that.  Essentially, Wells Fargo could use the $74 billion of tax losses on Wachovia's loan writedowns to offset its own income, which means the bank's taxes could be much lower for several years, said Deutsche Bank analyst Mike Mayo. The combined company will have total deposits of $713 billion and more than 6,500 locations  more than any other bank in the U.S. While there is some overlap in states like California and Texas, the deal essentially opens up the entire East Coast to Wells Fargo, giving it a footprint in new markets such as New York and Miami. In terms of total assets, a combined Wells Fargo-Wachovia would have $1.37 trillion in estimated pro forma assets as of the end of this year. As of June 30, Bank of America Corp. had $2.72 trillion in assets including those of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co., which it is acquiring. Citigroup had $2.10 trillion and J.P. Morgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. had about $1.78 trillion, including WaMu's assets.  The fight for Wachovia comes at a turbulent time for banks and financial firms as they grapple with the ongoing credit crisis, which led to the recent bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the failure of Washington Mutual Inc &amp;nbsp; -yahoo.com                                
