Shared by  Three-Star Dave   Huh.  Time to sell your Wells Fargo stock ... Wachovia walked away from its tentative deal with Citigroup, announcing a stunning move Friday to instead merge with California banking giant Wells Fargo.Unlike the Citigroup-Wachovia deal, which involved just a sale of Wachovia's banking operations, Wells Fargo (WFC, Fortune 500) would absorb all of Wachovia's assets including its vast deposit network, its massive brokerage business and investment management division.Wachovia shareholders will receive 0.1991 shares of Wells Fargo common stock in exchange for each share of Wachovia common stock in the transaction, valuing the deal at roughly $7 per Wachovia common share, or approximately $15.1 billion.Citigroup (C, Fortune 500) had offered $2.2 billion for just Wachovia's banking operations. The company was not immediately available for comment.Investors cheered the news as Wachovia (WB, Fortune 500) shares soared 68% in pre-market trading. Shares of Wells Fargo gained more than 5% while Citigroup's stock fell more than 13%.Wells Fargo had reportedly walked away from negotiations with Wachovia over the weekend after concerns surfaced regarding parts of Wachovia's loan portfolio, which has been ravaged by the fallout in the housing market in recent months.On Thursday night, however, Wachovia's board voted in favor of the Wells Fargo's offer, viewing it as superior to Citi's proposed deal, according to a person familiar with the matter.  "This deal enables us to keep Wachovia intact and preserve the value of an integrated company," Wachovia CEO Robert Steel said in a statement.The transaction may also be more attractive to regulators. The Wells Fargo-Wachovia deal would require no financial assistance, unlike the Citi deal, in which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. would have covered any losses over $42 billion on Wachovia's $300 billion loan portfolio.The tie-up, however, comes at a cost for the San Francisco-based Wells Fargo. The company said it expected to incur about $10 billion in merger related costs. It said it would also record Wachovia's impaired assets at fair value, which could herald further writedowns.Separately, the company said it planned to raise $20 billion, primarily through a common stock sale to help prop up its capital position.Wells Fargo, however, seemed confident about the tie-up, saying it expected the acquisition to add to earnings in the first year of operations.Unlike many of its peers, Wells Fargo has managed to ride out the credit crunch and turmoil in the housing market without taking a big hit. The company reported better-than-expected earnings for the second quarter in July.While the deal is certain to result in some positions being eliminated, Wells Fargo execs said they would work to attempt to retain as many Wachovia workers as possible."We want to assure them we'll do everything we can to make the integration of our operations as smooth as possible," Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf said in a statement.The deal also represents a significant power shift in the banking industry. Wells Fargo, whose operations and bank branches were largely located in the Midwest and on the West Coast, will now have a dominant presence along the Eastern seaboard and the Southeast. Once the Wachovia deal is completed, Wells Fargo will control about $800 billion in deposits and have nearly 11,000 banking locations.In the last month alone, the nation's banking industry has undergone a dramatic facelift, including the failure of Washington Mutual and its subsequent purchase by JPMorgan Chase (JPM, Fortune 500) as well as Bank of America's (BAC, Fortune 500) acquisition of Merrill Lynch.
