No doubt, many of you have heard about the "credit crunch", the financial crisis, or whatever the hell it's being called these days, here in the U.S.I've been following the news on one bank in particular, because my accounts are with them. Specifically, I'm talking about Wachovia. This whole thing has had me quite nervous and scared several times, but for the moment my accounts remain with Wachovia. (A banking joke: Some have said that you should never bank with an institution whose name can conceivably be perceived as meaning "walk over you", since that phrase can also be pronounced "wa'k ova ya", and since that's what such institutions tend to do anyway,... just walk over ya.)Citibank of New York brokered a deal in which they would buy a part of Wachovia for $1 per share, for a total of $2.16 billion. Wells Fargo had been considering buying Wachovia, as well, but balked at first. Then, not long after Citi had put their bid in, with the backing of the FDIC, Wells Fargo changed its mind, and put in a bid for $7 per share, or $15.1 billion, and added that they would not need any assistance from the Federal Government. In response, Citi has filed a lawsuit against Wachovia and Wells Fargo for breach of contract.Bloomberg has put up an interesting article on the subject of this particular fiasco going on in the midst of the "credit meltdown", as others have called it. As a Wachovia customer and as a U.S. taxpayer, I'm definitely of the opinion that Wells Fargo's deal should be the one to be backed by the government, and that Citi ought to be awarded some sort of financial recompense, too. Citi's complaint against Wachovia and Wells Fargo has merit, but Wells Fargo's proposal is without doubt far better for Wachovia's shareholders, employees, and customers, as well as U.S. taxpayers, since this would be a deal they wouldn't have to foot the bill for.I fully agree with the following, found in the Bloomberg article linked to above:"It is going to be a mess trying to divide up the deposits," said Morgan Keegan &amp;amp; Co. analyst Robert Patten. "But the loans that go with the relationships are even more important." He called carving up Wachovia "a horrible idea."It would be nice if these banks, especially Citi, would show more concern for the people most affected by this transaction, instead of concern for our deposits.Also, I love this, from the same article:More drawbacks face New York-based Citigroup than San Francisco-based Wells Fargo because of opposition from Wachovia shareholders, employees and customers, said analyst Nancy Bush of NAB Research LLC in Annandale, New Jersey.If the shareholders, employees, and customers are not wanting their bank to be broken up by Citi, then why should their deal be allowed to go through? If the shareholders, employees, and customers are not wanting their bank to be broken up between Citi and Wells Fargo, then why should that be allowed to go through, either? Why settle for a complex and messy arrangement when a far more simple one is already on the table? Let Wells Fargo buy all of Wachovia, as they have proposed, but enjoin them to pay Citi for having intruded on their deal. Giving Citi the $2.16 billion they had proposed to pay for Wachovia, plus punitive damages would seem a fair deal to me.I've even found an article calling for Citi to walk away from this deal: Citi, walk away from Wachovia! (CNNMoney.com). In fact, in the CNNMoney.com article, it's noted that Citi claims it was a deal they wanted, not one they needed:If Citi is to be believed, the purchase of Wachovia's banking assets is not a make or break acquisition for the firm. In the press release about its complaint Monday, Citigroup said that Wachovia "was always a deal Citi wanted rather than one we needed."My personal feelings on the matter are these: if Citi is given full reign, and Wells Fargo is shoved out the door, then I'll be moving my accounts to another bank, most likely Bank of America. If Wachovia gets split between Citi and Wells Fargo, then the results will be the same: I'll still move my accounts. If, however, Wells Fargo is allowed to follow through on their proposal (which, I would think, would require some sort of punitive damages be paid to Citi), then I would leave my accounts with Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo was my bank when I lived in the San Francisco Bay Area, and they were a great bank to deal with. They had, and still have, incredible customer service, and they also have the highest rating a bank can receive, which is yet another great commendation for them.But my absolute favourite part of the Bloomberg article, though, is this:"Citi should fold their tent and leave the scene," said Gary Townsend, president of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC, an investment firm in Chevy Chase, Maryland, that specializes in banks. "Why should regulators agree to a sale where it means taxpayer involvement, when we have another willing buyer who isn't seeking government involvement?"How could I possibly disagree with him?:PFOOTNOTE: No, Gary Townsend, president of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC, is not me. But he's got a great name!, don't you think? :P
