The blame game for the $700 billion mortgage bailout is shifting into high gear, with Congressional hearings conducting a show trial with the CEO&amp;#8217;s of Lehman and AIG.   All of these folks have high-priced attorneys and lobbyists protecting their interests, and in many instances the golden parachutes they took with them.  Who will represent the homeowners? As the story goes, the government began pressuring Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and banks to increase loans to low-income borrowers, including minorities.  These entities acted as a conduit by packaging pools of these loans to large institutional investors, underwritten by large Wall Street investment banks like Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, and Lehman.  Since many low-income borrowers didn&amp;#8217;t have the cash to make a deposit or the income to make the mortgage payments, these loans were obviously riskier.  To underwrite the increased risk, insurance giant AIG jumped in by protecting the investors against defaults. Everybody made huge profits because of one factor - leverage.  They were able to package, sell, and insure billions of dollars of these loans with minimal amounts of collateral, which translated into enormous returns on investment.  But leverage is a two-way street.  If real estate values increase, profits will be large.  If they don&amp;#8217;t rise, and defaults increase, the losses would be substantial.  Because the real estate market was strong, competition to invest in subprime loans became over-heated, and lenders did not increase pricing or tighten underwriting standards to compensate for the increased risk. It is clear that many loans were made to people who couldn&amp;#8217;t afford them.  But who is to blame for that?  Lenders, investors, investment banks, or insurance companies who were making obscene profits and taking huge risks, or honest Americans, many of whom are people of color, trying to live the American dream.  I fear Wall Street will turn the homeowners into scapegoats, and claim more than their fair share of the bailout funds.
