Sell, Sell, Sell... is all you will hear if you happened to be in the City of London today.   Markets are in a state of turmoil. Investors are trying to save themselves by dumping their stocks as fast as they can.   Why?   BBC reported this morning that some large banks have held talks with the government to shore up some emergency funding - just in case. Markets have seen this as signs of more trouble ahead and have been dumping the shares as if there i.e. no tomorrow.   Royal Bank of Scotland shares fell by 17%, HBOS dropped 14%, Lloyds TSB was down 11% and Barclays fell 5% in single morning of trading. And the day is not over yet!   Today's newspapers have been screaming panic all over the place. The Guardian headlined, &amp;quot;Panic grips world's markets&amp;quot;; &amp;quot;World of pain&amp;quot; was on the front of the Mirror; &amp;quot;Sell! Sell! Sell!&amp;quot; screamed the Independent and &amp;quot;Blackest Monday&amp;quot; was the verdict of the Sun.   You can read the detailed post on today's activities at this blog post (Sell Your Property Fast).       But What About Property?     If you own a property then one of the natural things you may ask will be: will this affect property prices?   In a word: Yes! This will affect property. If not straight away then a few weeks down the line. This is how it works: turmoil in stock markets will limit banks to lend. Companies, already in need of liquidity (cash) will be forced to run dry... this will affect their ability to do business. This will affect their bottom line, resulting in layoffs. When people loose their jobs then many people will feel the financial stress.   As banks are already strapped of cash, any signs of financial stress will make them anxious. It is a fact that banks are not shy of starting repossession proceedings. So the top priority for home owners should be to avoid, or stop repossession.   Here is what people should do:     Whether they think this is not a good time... they should compare sell and rent back schemes. Just get some idea how they work. You probably may never need it. But you may know some one who may... who knows.   There are plenty of information on the Internet. Do your home work... markets are in turmoil. Things can change swiftly and dramatically. After all, every thing was great and looking great not long ago. And it took only weeks and we are where we are.   Top Tip:     Bookmark the website (Sell to Rent Back) for future reference.
