Marco Pagano says the opacity of complex financial instruments was an attempt  to simplify the information transmitted to the market and expand the customer base.  That is, "they preferred to expand the primary market as much as possible, even  at the cost of endangering the stability and liquidity of the secondary market."  Unfortunately, however, this lack of transparency led to "catastrophic uncertainty" and "paralysis":The price of  transparency, by Marco Pagano, Vox EU: The most surprising aspect of the  current crisis is that the estimate of bank losses has been subject to  continuous and macroscopic revisions. When the first problems arose in the  subprime loans sector in 2006, the problem seemed to concern a quite modest  segment of the U.S. credit market. But already in December 2007, the  Economist estimated that losses stemming from mortgage loan insolvencies  would sit between $200 and $300 bn. In April 2008 the IMF predicted losses of  $565 bn on mortgage loans and on related securities, and $945 bn including loans  and securities related to commercial real estate, consumer credit and corporate  loans. Now the IMF has revised its estimate further to $1400 bn. How could it  happen that bankers, central banks, international institutions and economic  experts made such macroscopic mistakes in insolvency estimates? And how can it  be that they are still so uncertain as to their real extent?The Origins of UncertaintyThe uncertainty originates from the same roots of this crisis, that is from  the opacity of the securitization with which banks packaged and then sold  their credits in structured bonds, often after slicing them in different risk  tranches. In this process, only roughly synthesized information was transmitted  to the market concerning the underlying loan portfolio or its tranches. So there  was a great loss of information that would have helped to evaluate the credit  risk of those portfolios.Since structured bonds and the derivatives written on them were massively  bought by banks, insurance companies and trust funds, the uncertainty concerning  their value turned into uncertainty regarding the amount of losses and toxic  assets hidden in bank balances, and made it difficult or impossible for them to  obtain liquidity or raise fresh capital. Indeed, extreme uncertainty generates  fear, and fear generates paralysis. This is best illustrated by the case of  Lehman Brothers, the large investment bank that played a central role in the  securitization process. When Lehman entered distress, the primary U.K. bank  Barclays was the only institution that showed interest in buying up Lehman, but  for fear that its balance sheet hid more losses and toxic assets than those  declared, they asked for a guarantee from the U.S. Treasury against this risk.  As the Treasury refused to offer a guarantee, Barclays held back and Lehman  failed. One might say that this bankruptcy, the largest in U.S. history, is the  outcome of uncertainty. It cannot be ruled out that Lehman would have been  solvent if only their assets and liabilities could have been properly evaluated.The uncertainty generated by lack of transparency is also at the root of  market illiquidity. Since June 2007, the market of structured bonds basically  froze and even the liquidity on the money markets rarefied. The reason behind  this event too is the fear generated by uncertainty: investors were afraid of  buying securities that could hide more insolvent loans than expected, so if they  had liquidity they preferred to hoard it. This market paralysis in turn worsened  the situation of banks, making their assets illiquid and forcing them to curtail  credit.Uncertainty can even explain the swinging and ill-timed behaviour of U.S.  policy makers: on September 8, the Treasury nationalized agencies such as Fannie  Mae and Freddie Mac, who guarantee most of the U.S. mortage loans. The Treasury  had already obtained Congress authorization in July and at that time had  insisted there would be no need for intervention. On September 15, the Treasury  let Lehman fail. On September 18, the Fed saved AIG, the worlds largest  insurance company, by giving them an enormous loan with the option to buy 80 per  cent of its shares, replace its executives and nearly eliminate its preexisting  shareholders. Finally, on September 20 Henry Paulson, Secretary of the U.S.  Treasury, asked Congress to allocate $700 bn (5 per cent of U.S. GDP) to the  purchase of the banks bad assets, hopefully with adequate haircuts. Yet this  policy move had already been proposed as early as April 2008 on the  Financial Times by Luigi Spaventa, who had observed that there would be no  way out from the crisis unless the authorities intervened to reestablish prices  of structured bonds, which markets can no longer establish because of  uncertainty.1Maybe the dimensions of the crisis could have been contained if this  suggestion had been put into action earlier. But even this delay was probably  caused by the uncertainty as to the real proportion of the problem.A socially harmful choiceBut what can explain the behaviour that is at the root of this catastropic  uncertainty, that is, the destruction of a large amount of price relevant  information in the process of securitization and rating of structured bonds? The  answer is that by simplifying the information transmitted to the market, banks  managed to expand the market for the structured bonds that they issued:  providing detailed and complex information would have kept away from the market  many unsophisticated investors, who would have been at a disadvantage compared  to those capable of processing this information.Therefore, greater transparency would have forced issuers to reduce their  security issuance or to accept a less liquid primary market, and this would have  reduced their revenues, as well as those of rating agencies. Instead, they  preferred to expand the primary market as much as possible, even at the cost of  endangering the stability and liquidity of the secondary market.2Now we know that this choice by issuers and rating companies was socially  harmful: market liquidity and credit market stability have a social value that  exceeds the private one, to the point that that today the U.S. is willing to  sacrifice 5 per cent of its GDP to restore them. But this also indicates that  the choice of opacity by issuers and rating companies should have met with far  more solid and stringent regulatory constraints. We all knew that transparency  is important for the operation of financial markets, but to this time few  thought that it could be worth 5 per cent of the U.S. GDP and possibly more. Now  that we know this, financial market regulators will have to keep it into account  for the future.Footnotes1 Luigi Spaventa, How a new Brady bond could ease the strain,  Financial Times, 11 April 2008. For a more detailed description and motivation  of Spaventas proposal, see Avoiding  Disorderly Deleveraging, CEPR Policy Insight No. 22, May.2 Investors who are can interpret more complex ratings would have  left only the worse securities to the less sophisticated investors, a problem  that in auction theory is known as winners curse. These arguments, and their  implications for the regulation of ratings, are developed analytically in Marco  Pagano and Paolo Volpin, Securitization,  Transparency and Liquidity, September 2008.
