      Brad DeLong explains the evolution of the bailout plan:    From Plan A to Plan G, by Brad DeLong, CIF, The Guardian: ...An occupational disease of being an economic historian is to insist that the  answers to all questions lie in the Great Depression... When the financial  crisis hit in a sudden squall in August 2007, in the back of the Federal  Reserve's mind was that it should not repeat any of the mistakes that led to the  Depression. Hence Ben Bernanke and his Fed loaned extraordinarily freely to  banks and near-banks and non-banks in order to avoid what Milton Friedman said  was the key mistake that made the Depression Great:... a liquidity squeeze that made cash hard to get. Call this Plan A. In a couple of months it became clear that Plan A was not working. The  economy was weakening. And the Fed remembered the theory - put forward by, among  others, Lawrence Summers and myself - that what made the Depression Great was  that businesses began to expect deflation. The expectation of falling prices  made every business postpone its investment spending - better to wait ... and  build ... when prices were cheaper - and so private  investment collapsed. So Bernanke and his Fed lowered interest rates to what  they thought were levels that might trigger inflation, as a way of making sure  that no business anywhere would even begin to suspect that a deflationary spiral  was in the making. That was Plan B. But the economy fell toward (if not into) recession, and interest rates had  already been pushed down so low that the Fed's monetary policy had lost its  virtue and vigour. So it was time for Plan C: mail out a bunch of extra  tax-rebate cheques, hoping that ... consumer spending ... would recover with at  worst a small recession. Meanwhile, the investment bank Bear Stearns collapsed. The Federal Reserve  and the Treasury concluded that they could not stand by and wait to see if Plan  C was working. They had to move to Plan D: case-by-case forced mergers,  liquidations and nationalisations of banks and other financial institutions in  order to prevent the course of events that the third theory of the Depression  said had made it Great. This theory was Bernanke's: that the downfall of 1929-1933 was largely the  result of bank failures that collapsed businesses' ability to borrow to expand  or even fund ongoing operations. So we had the forced merger of Bear Stearns  into JPMorgan Chase; a lull to see if Plan C would work (it didn't); the  renationalisation or deprivatisation of the mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac; ... the Fed bought the insurance company AIG; and the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers... The failure of Lehman Brothers triggered or uncovered or brought on financial  catastrophe.... It was time for Plan E: the Paulson plan, a $700bn programme by  which the Treasury would buy up troubled mortgages, mortgage-backed securities  and derivatives... The hope behind the Paulson plan was supply and demand. ... If the Treasury were to buy  $700bn of risky financial assets and put them on the shelf, this would diminish  the supply. When supply falls, prices rise. As the prices of financial assets  rose, banks would profit immensely - and people would no longer fear that the  bank ... might dry up and blow away in the next week.  The financial markets swallowed the passage of Plan E without a burp and  continued on their downward spiral... It was time for Plan F..., governments could invest public money in the banks  whether they liked it or not, thus making them so well-capitalised that their  failure would be inconceivable... Now we get to see whether Plan F will work, and whether this ... will stop the slide of the world  economy, and keep us in mild recession rather than severe recession or even  depression.  There is every reason to hope that it will. The liquidity-squeeze theory, the  expected-deflation theory and the Bernanke banking-collapse theory were the only  live theories of the Great Depression. The first two no longer seem viable. ...  So if we can counteract the chain of causation of the third - the only one left  standing - we should be in no danger of even a not-so-great depression. But the  theory ... could be wrong. If Plan F fails, we move to Plan G: we pull the Keynesian fire alarm and  begin an enormous government infrastructure building programme in the whole  North Atlantic to keep away depression. But as of now there is every reason to hope that it will work - that this  time, for sure, what our magicians pull out of the hat will be the desired  rabbit.      
