My rage is so intense, so massive, and so terrifying, I can't even come up with my own words to describe the amount of hate I'm feeling. On top of everything else that's going on, US Bank has decided that it wants to jump on the fuckwagon. First there was Hate. Then there was Hate II - Hate Harder. Now it's a god-damned trilogy, and I've entered a whole new world of non-stop, explosive, action-packed hate.All that can come to mind right now is Cracked columnist Dan O'Brien's article cordially inviting Fox to 'Eat Several Dicks'. Though this article is about the whole Watchmen/Fox debacle, the very end consists of everything I would like to say to US Bank, right now, before my white-hot rage gets tucked away in a special place deep in my subconscious where it can fester and grow for the next 15 years.Hopefully I've made it abundantly clear that I've taken this article from here: http://www.cracked.com/blog/fox-can-eat-several-dicks/, and that I'm not trying to plagarize or claim any part of it as my own, because the last thing I want is some epic lawsuit to add to the Bete-Noire Circus that I've allowed my life to become. O'Brien has truly mastered the language of hate, and he deserves all credit. Use your big smart brains to replace the 'DOB' with 'Sara' and there you have it.Dear US Bank,"Eat all the dicks. Open your bitter, miserable mouth and eat all thedicks. Stop using that mouth of yours to whine, and get started on allthese dicks you need to be eating. Keep eating dicks, even at night,even on weekends. Intuition will tell you that youve had enough dicks,but you will be wrong: You will never have eaten enough dicks.You may complain that what youre doing is perfectly legal, but Idargue that Ive never read a law that specifically prohibitsforce-feeding a lethal amount of dicks down someones throat, (though,Ill admit, Im almost positive there is one). You may say I dontcare what you think, DOB, to which Id respond, Thats some toughtalk for someone with an acre of dicks in their mouth.And even when you meekly protest that they dont measure dicks in acres, I wont be able to hear you.Because of all the dicks."There's nothing more to say. Thank you DOB.
