Fitch Ratings has assigned an 'AA-/F1+' rating to the $70,000,000 Industrial Development Authority (IDA) of St. Joseph, Missouri, variable-rate demand health facilities revenue bonds (VRDBs) (Heartland Regional Medical Center), Series 2009A. (the bonds). (For more information on the underlying credit please refer to the research report published on Feb. 3, 2009 available on the Fitch Ratings web site at www.fitchratings.com.) The rating is based on the support provided by an irrevocable, direct-pay letter of credit (LOC) issued by U.S. Bank National Association (currently rated 'AA-/F1+'by Fitch), securing the bonds. The bank is obligated to make payments of principal of and interest on the bonds when due as well as the purchase price for tendered bonds. The LOC is sufficiently sized to provide full coverage of principal plus an amount equal to 40 days' interest at a maximum rate of 12% based on a year of 365 days and purchase price for tendered bonds while in the daily or weekly interest rate mode. The rating will expire upon the earliest of: (a) Feb. 26, 2012, the initial stated expiration date of the LOC, unless such date is extended; (b) the business day following a conversion of the bonds to other than a weekly or daily rate mode; (c) upon any prior termination of the LOC; or (d) upon defeasance of the bonds. The underwriter for the bonds is Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. The bonds are expected to be delivered on or about Feb. 26, 2009. The bonds initially bear interest at a weekly rate mode, but may be converted to a daily, bond interest term, auction, or long-term interest mode. While the bonds bear interest in the weekly rate mode, interest payments will be made on the first Wednesday of each month, commencing March 4, 2009. Holders may tender their bonds on any business day, provided the trustee is given at least seven calendar days' prior notice of the purchase. The bonds are subject to mandatory tender upon: (1) conversion; (2) substitution; (3) on the fourth business following the trustee's receipt of an event of default notice from the bank stating that an event of default under the Reimbursement Agreement has occurred; and (4) on the fifth business day prior to the LOC expiration date. Optional and mandatory redemptions provisions also apply to the bonds. Bond proceeds will be used to pay or reimburse the corporation for the costs incurred for the purchase, construction, expansion and improvement of buildings, structures, facilities, fixtures and equipment to be used as part of the hospital. Fitch's rating definitions and the terms of use of such ratings are available on the agency's public site, www.fitchratings.com. Published ratings, criteria and methodologies are available from this site, at all times. Fitch's code of conduct, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, affiliate firewall, compliance and other relevant policies and procedures are also available from the 'Code of Conduct' section of this site. Fitch Ratings Mario Civico, 212-908-0796, New York (for information on the bonds) Anthony Houston, 312-368-3180, Chicago (for information on the underlying bond rating) or Media Relations: Cindy Stoller, 212-908-0526, New York Email: cindy.stoller@fitchratings.com 
