Moody's Investors Service downgraded $6.2 billion of commercial mortgage-backed securities on Monday amid concerns that losses would grow from increased leverage, reduced reserves to pay debt and loan losses. The move follows the ratings agency's announcement last week it would review the ratings of some $300 billion of bonds backed by commercial real-estate loans. More than a quarter of those securities are vulnerable to multiple-notch credit downgrades. On Thursday, Moody's said it will apply new assumptions about falling property cash flows and stressed capitalization rates, which are the ratio of net income to its value, when considering the rating of the bonds. The review is slated to be complete within 60 days. The commercial real-estate market has held up better than the housing market, but it began to deteriorate quickly in the last quarter of the year. Retail and hotel properties have been hit hard in particular as companies go out of business and both leisure and business travel have slumped. The ratings agency last year said it expected cumulative losses of 2% on the commercial bonds issued between 2006 and 2008, but it now has increased these loss estimates to 5% on average. Moody's, which on Monday downgraded 44 classes and affirmed another 27, expects a significant decline in future property cash flows on higher tenant defaults, bankruptcies and a sharp decline in lease-renewal rates. The affected ratings detailed Monday included 13 downgraded classes worth $2.6 billion for Bank of America Corp. (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , 17 downgraded classes worth $2 billion for Credit Suisse Group (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and 14 downgraded classes worth $1.6 billion for Bear Stearns Cos., which was sold to J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) last year. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
