Moody's Investors Service has downgraded its credit ratings for eight local banks.  The global credit rating agency said it lowered ratings of the Export-Import Bank of Korea, Hana Bank, the Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK), Kookmin Bank, Korea Development Bank (KDB), National Agricultural Cooperatives Federation (NACF), Shinhan Bank, and Woori Bank to ''A2,'' equal to the sovereign rating. Export-Import Bank of Korea, KDB, Kookmin Bank and IBK were previously rated ''Aa3,'' two notches higher than the sovereign rating, and Hana, Shinhan, Woori and NACF were rated ''A1,'' one notch higher.  The downgrading means these banks will have to pay higher premiums in borrowing overseas.  Moody's said earlier last month that the banks, as well as Citibank Korea and Woori Finance Holdings, would see their ratings under review for possible downgrades, citing their foreign currency debt ratings, higher than that of the government. Citibank Korea and Woori Finance Holdings maintained their ''A2'' ratings.  ''With regard to foreign currency debt ratings, the downgrades reflect Moody's opinion that the banks' ratings should be more aligned with the Korean government's A2 foreign currency bond rating on the basis that the government's ability to support systemically important banks in local currency liquidity is materially greater than its ability to provide foreign currency liquidity,'' Moody's said in a report.  The agency said that while the banks continue to have some access to external funding without government guarantees, the foreign currency liquidity shortfalls of many banks are being met by utilizing various government channels, such as competitive swap auctions.  ''Accordingly, given the banks' reliance on government support to secure foreign currency funding during the crisis, Moody's believes it is inappropriate for their foreign currency debt ratings to be higher than that of the government. Therefore, foreign currency debt ratings are best measured and constrained at the A2 foreign currency sovereign bond level,'' it added.  Moody's said that the revised ratings on the banks carry a stable outlook, except for KDB, which has a negative outlook.  It added that it has put Bank's Financial Strength Rating (BFSR) of Kookmin, Woori, Shinhan and Hana Bank on review for possible downgrade.  Despite the downgrade, the stock market remained unrattled. Bank shares rose 0.48 percent, and financial stocks gained 0.45 percent.  
