CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Fitch Ratings has downgraded the Issuer Default Ratings (IDR) of AbitibiBowater Inc., Abitibi-Consolidated Inc., Bowater Inc. (Bowater) and Bowater Canadian Forest Products Inc. (BCFPI) to 'C' and other affiliated debt ratings as follows:   AbitibiBowater Inc.--IDR to 'C' from 'CCC'.Abitibi-Consolidated Inc.--IDR to 'C' from 'CC';  --Senior secured term loan to 'B-/RR1' from 'CCC/RR1';  --Secured notes to 'B-/RR1' from 'CCC/RR1';  --Long-term unsecured to 'C/RR6' from 'CC/RR4'.  Bowater Incorporated  --IDR to 'C' from 'CCC';  --Secured revolver to 'B-/RR1' from 'B/RR1';  --Senior unsecured debt to 'C/RR6' from 'CCC/RR4'.  Bowater Canadian Forest Products Inc.  --IDR to 'C' from 'CCC';  --Secured revolver to 'B-/RR1' from 'B/RR1';  --Senior unsecured debt to 'C/RR6' from 'B-/RR2'.  No Rating Outlook is assigned.  These rating actions follow a rapid deterioration in the pulp markets (both demand and price) which began in the fourth quarter of last year. In tandem markets have grown weaker in newsprint, light-weight coated papers and lumber. All have contributed to a liquidity crunch at Bowater and a distressed debt exchange (DDE) offer by the company to remedy further cash erosion.  Fitch's criteria for a DDE include a reduction in the aggregate principle received of bonds being asked to tender in an exchange and an admission of a potential default were the exchange not to occur. These conditions exist in the Bowater exchange. Bowater has offered a package of second and third lien notes for six series of senior unsecured notes maturing this year through 2021. If wholly successful the repayment of $248 million, $234 million and $600 million of debt maturing this year, 2010 and 2011, respectively, will have been pushed out until 2012 with a significant loss of principle. As an inducement for the exchange, the unsecured notes are being offered security interests in Bowater's fixed assets (including the Catawba and Calhoun pulp and paper mills) plus subordinate interests in collateral granted to Bowater's banks, all subject to a consent amendment to the unsecured notes which would permit the security grants as envisioned. The face value of the second and third lien notes received by tendering unsecured note holders will be substantially less than the face value of the notes being tendered, and Bowater stands to benefit from an approximate $600 million plus reduction in total debt if the exchange offer is wholly successful.  Bowater is also looking to raise new money through the sale of a series of first lien notes due 2011 which is also being offered to the unsecured note holders solicited in the tender, said liens ranking ahead of those offered as tender consideration. If the subscription is wholly successful, a little more than $211 million will be raised from the unsecured note holders before fees. In addition, Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited has separately agreed to purchase $80 million of the first lien notes contingent upon the results of the exchange offer and unsecured note holders' subscriptions to the first lien notes. Bowater intends to use approximately $40 million and $43 million to permanently reduce amounts outstanding under Bowater's U.S. bank credit facility and BCFPI's Canadian bank credit facility, respectively.  If the exchange offer is completed and the first lien notes are partially or wholly sold, Fitch would lower the IDR of Bowater to 'RD' before taking further rating actions on existing debt securities and rating those which are the final result of the exchange offer. Prospectively, it is likely that Fitch would raise Bowater's IDR to 'CC' or potentially higher if the results of the exchange are wholly successful and if no other rating issues have emerged.  The IDRs of 'C' assigned to AbitibiBowater Inc. and designated subsidiaries signify situations where defaults are probable or imminent due to concerns surrounding the business environment that is afflicting Bowater, the amount of debt maturing in the near term, and the likely prospects of refinancing maturing debt in the current credit environment.AbitibiBowater Inc. together with Bowater, Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and subsidiaries produce a wide range of newsprint, commercial printing papers, market pulp and wood products. AbitibiBowater Inc. owns or operates 25 pulp and paper facilities and 30 wood product facilities in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and South Korea.  Fitch's rating definitions and terms of use of such ratings are available on the agency's public web site, www.fitchratings.com. Published ratings, criteria and methodologies are available from this site, at all times. Fitch's code of conduct, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, affiliate firewall, compliance and other relevant policies and procedures are also available from the 'Code of Conduct' section of this site.
