Asteron and Aviva were the joint awardees of this year's 2008 Life Insurance Company of the Year Award by the Association of Financial Advisers (AFA) and Plan For Life.  Challenger, which last year acquired the annuities portfolio of AXA, was named the 2008 Annuity Provider of the Year.  The Award winners and finalists were selected based on a combination of quantitative and qualitative research, including data from Plan For Life Risk Insurance Benchmarking Reports in each of the four quarters of 2008.  More than 400 advisers were then surveyed to analyse each insurance company's services across various categories: New Business and Underwriting, Claims, Business Support to Advisers and Quotation Systems.  'These awards are about recognising excellence in the market place. They [acknowledge] frontline' feedback from advisers who work with these providers every day on behalf of their clients,' said Richard Klipin, AFA's chief executive.  'It's important for advisers to have a say [on which the best providers are] - and they do that through the surveys that rate a company that's essentially their partner.  'And from a company's point of view, it's fantastic for advisers to know that providers like Asteron and Aviva, across their product lines and business, are delivering strong outcomes for their customers and advisers,' said Klipin.  In its third year running, the AFA and Plan For Life have introduced a new category, Investment Bonds, with data drawn from Plan For Life's 2008 Insurance Bonds Report.  The inaugural winner was CommInsure for both the Investment Bonds Award and the Insurance Investment Bonds Award. Lifeplan took the gong for the Friendly Society Investment Bonds Award.  Other Life Insurance Company category award winners were TOWER Australia for the Life Cover and TPD and Premium Rates, CommInsure for Trauma Insurance, AIG Life for Income Protection, Zurich Australia for Service Quality and Asteron for Product Features.  In annuities, Challenger snapped the Short Term Annuities and Long Term Annuities awards while CommInsure received the top marks in Lifetime Annuities.  
