U.S. Economy and Stock Market UpdateFriday, September 12, 2008Market Commentary By Benjamin TrainFuel shortage alert after US storm:Oil refineries in Texas put out of action by Hurricane Ike could take eight to nine days to recover, US Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison has said. The Texas senator told the CBS network that power outages and flooding at the facilities meant refined gasoline was "going to be in a shortage situation".In an interview with CBS, Sen Hutchison said she had been told by officials at the Federal Emergency Management Agency (Fema) that oil refineries in the state were "pretty much down". Production was halted at 15 oil refineries in Texas, including the giant Exxon Mobil refinery in Baytown, ahead of the storm. Together, they make up just under a quarter of US fuel production capacity. The storm also shut down crude oil production in the Gulf of Mexico, which is responsible for a quarter of total US output.The major indices closed lower Friday as all ten of the major economic sectors are trading with losses, last week, taking down all of this weeks earlier gains.The early downturn is most pronounced in the financial sector (-4.0%). Financials continue to be plagued by concerns of write-downs that may still be lurking on balance sheets. "It's going to be an ugly third and fourth quarter for earnings," said Karen Olney, head of European equity strategy at Merrill Lynch. "The market hasn't quite discounted the fall in profit you have in a recession."Also shares of Lehman Brothers were down more than 10% ahead of Friday's opening bell amid swirling rumors that the embattled Wall Street icon will sell itself over the weekend. Sources with direct knowledge of talks said, U.S. authorities were in intensive discussions with Lehman, on options including an outright sale. Barclays pulled out of talks on buying most of the troubled US bank Lehman Brothers - another setback for rescue attempts.Barclays walked away because it was unable to obtain guarantees in relation to financial commitments faced by Lehman when markets open on Monday. The rescue effort is being coordinated by the US Treasury and the New York Federal Reserve.The US government had hoped to arrange a bailout under which other US investments banks - such as Citigroup,  JP Morgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs - would finance a new firm that would hold the most "toxic" investments of Lehman in the property and mortgage market.The U.S. has shown its financial muscles and orchestrated one of the biggest intervention of all time in order to restore confidence in the financial markets. The dollar hit a one-year high against the euro and a basket of currencies on Thursday due to a wave of risk aversion, while the New Zealand dollar fell to a two-year low after a large central bank interest rate cut.Britain's FTSE 100 .FTSE was down 1.3 percent, while Germany's DAX .GDAXI and the French CAC 40 .FCHI both lost 1.5 percent."The Euro Zone economy outlook is looking increasingly gloomy," said David Tinsley, economist at NabCapital. "The source of volatility is coming from the risky side of the equation, it's coming more from the euro zone economy rather than the U.S. economy, although there's still a substantial amount of risk there as well."U.S. Treasuries fell and stocks rose as the markets pared some of the moves in the opposite directions seen yesterday. 10-year Treasury note fell 15/32 to 103-04/32 for a yield of 4.62%. 30-year bond tumbled 27/32 to 104-24/32 for a yield of 4.22%.Some are speculating that the Federal Reserve may announce a rate cut on Tuesday. The US dollar went from nearly challenging its all-time low mid-July to rallying 13% over 80 today.This has occurred with no back drop of interest rate increases, in an environment of poor US economic data, falling US bond yields making them less attractive to foreign investors, record US budget deficits and an unprecedented potentially a multi-trillion dollar bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.With the US dollar comfortably out of danger of going into a currency crisis, the stage now has been set that an interest rate cut won't devastate the currency.Click to see the U.S. Dollar chart:http://stockcharts.com/h-sc/ui?s=$USD&amp;p=D&amp;yr=0&amp;mn=8&amp;dy=0&amp;id=p06475580727&amp;a=112138636&amp;listNum=3In the UK, stocks extended losses Thursday after Bank of England policymaker David Blanchflower said there would be a deeper than forecast decline in the British economy and front-loaded rises in unemployment. However, on Friday, we saw the Sterling rally on UK rate view boosts and stock shares rise.The Nikkei 225 Stock Average ended lower at 12,214.76. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell to close at a 21-month low of 2,079.67, led by financial stocks after U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers unveiled a restructuring plan following a $3.9 billion loss in the third quarter.The Hang Seng China Enterprises index was down at 19,352.90 its lowest close since April 10, 2007. INDIA the 30-share benchmark Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange lost another 323.48 points to close at 14,000.81.The financial markets appear to be digesting the government's plan to take over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and Lehman's failed talks with a prospective buyer.Elsewhere, crude oil and gold futures fell amid further strength in the greenback, but rose based on storm fears.  All energy sector shares also gained. BP was up 0.4 percent, while Total rose 0.6 percent. Shares in Britain's BG Group and Spain's Repsol were up 4.6 and 0.4 percent respectively after Petrobras said the Iara oil field in Brazil could hold 3-4 billion barrels of recoverable reserves.Market Outlook:Get Ready for a Second-Half Squeeze The U.S. economy has held up so far this year despite terrible conditions, but the rest of 2008 will be even tougher as businesses and consumers tighten their belts even further.Last week, the Mortgage Bankers Association reported a fresh surge in delinquencies and foreclosures during the second quarter, indicating that deterioration in the housing market is ongoing. Coming up are: The weekly employment report, ISM indexes for manufacturing and non-manufacturing, Business Inventories, construction spending, car sales, and U.S. productivity, and a Fed meeting announcements on nextTuesday.Staying afloat in the second half is going to be a much more difficult challenge. First, the lift from foreign trade, accounting for more than 90% of first-half growth, will be much smaller.Growth in Britain ground to a halt last quarter, the euro zone contracted, as did Japan, and growth elsewhere has slowed a notch. More troubling, outside of foreign trade, the domestic economy shrank in the fourth quarter, stayed almost flat for the next two, and is set to weaken further.The focus in the second half will be on consumers and jobs. Households contributed modestly to overall growth in the first half, as real (or inflation-adjusted) purchases rose 0.9% and 1.7% annually in the first and second quarters, respectively.Spending is getting off to an ominously poor start in the third quarter. Monthly declines in both June and July already have put outlays in a deep hole. It would take sizable gains in both August and September to prevent real consumer spending from recording its first quarterly decline since 1991.Through July, consumers' biggest problem was rising gasoline prices. Despite job losses, the labor markets and the tax rebates gave households enough income to increase their spending at a hefty 6.8% annual rate in the three months through July, up sharply from 3.8% in the previous three months. But that's before accounting for rising prices.From April to July, 56% of the increase in spending went to buy gas and other energy. After taking inflation into account, that 6.8% jump turns into a 0.7% drop.In the second half, falling gas prices, which by late August were 10% below their July peak, will help to restore some lost buying power. Still, it will take an additional 15% drop to get pump prices back to where they were earlier this year, and by the fourth quarter the spending boost from the tax rebates will be but a memory.The growing problem is income growth. The strong-looking numbers on the overall economy belie progressively slower income gains for both households and businesses.The government revised down its earlier estimates of wage-and-salary income in the first half, and it reported a fourth consecutive quarterly drop in corporate profits.So far this year, income growth from wages and salaries has slowed to 2.9% annually, from 4.5% during 2007. Even excluding energy, consumer prices are rising faster than that. The pay slowdown reflects losses in jobs and hours worked, which is expected to intensify in the second half. Businesses are feeling the pressure from the weak domestic economy.  The drop in profits reflects not only sagging demand but declining margins.Tougher Lending Standards:Tougher lending standards now make it harder for small businesses to stay afloat. For non-financial companies, the profit from each unit of output is falling sharply. So far, minor increases in productivity have helped some businesses cope with weak demand and rising costs.Companies are getting hit with the increasing cost of energy, financing and materials, many of which are imports whose prices are rising rapidly. Banks are increasingly cutting business lines of credit and offering small businesses credit cards. The increased cost to business owners is substantial.This financing squeeze is likely to crimp both capital spending and consumer demand, as companies try to limit the damage to profitability by postponing projects and cutting more jobs, closing their pension plans and not funding retirement plans.Bankruptcies Rising:Bankruptcy is not the end to a healthy life of credit, and it will generate more stress on the financial sector ahead.Consumers have increased their personal debt to record numbers which has generated the highest ...
