  The banks have raised the mortgage rates twice this year - without any prompting from the Reserve Bank. They have blamed the Credit Crisis in U.S. They say that this crisis has increased their cost of funds and hence they have no choice but to pass on the increase in cost of funding to consumers.  Since there has been such an extensive coverage in the media about the U.S credit crisis, the banks probably felt that people will understand if they blamed the credit crisis for their actions.  I am not saying that the banks just invented this excuse. The credit crisis is real. It has led to a substantial increase in cost of funding. The initial consumer and media reaction when they announced the rate rises was one of shock. Shock not at the banks actions but shock at the huge impact of the credit crisis.  But then we are no foolsIt all slowly started to sink in. Here are some of the events following the mortgage rate increase, that makes me angry: 1. Record profits by Commonwealth Bank. 2. Banks cut interest rates on deposits - on their own - no rate drop was announced by RBA. 3. Banks increase the credit card interest rates - again on their own 4. And here is the biggie - there are predictions that RBA might cut rates early next month. But the banks are saying that they are not sure if they can pass on the rate drop - even if they did, they say that they can only pass on a part of the rate drop. This is an absolute disgrace. I acknowledge that Government has been putting a lot of pressure on the banks. But the fact is this pressure can really do nothing much. Australia has a de-regulated financial market. And hence Government cannot force the banks.  Government has to address the real problem here. The real problem here is the lack of competition. The real victims of the credit crisis in US are the non-bank lenders. Lending by the non-bank lenders has declined sharply. The banks know this and they are rejoicing. They are not afraid. They know that they are the only choice for consumers.Americano new top 10 &amp;gt;&amp;gt;&amp;gt; Read more...
