Today was a rather scary day in the financial world, and it may have a trickle-down effect into the marketplace that I am very worried about. First, let&amp;#8217;s recap what actually happened today, then look at what it means, and then what I predict MAY occur. This will be the only doom-and-gloom article you will see from me this week, I promise! It appears that the MBS (mortgage backed securities) problem may still be plaguing the United States real estate crisis, and those fears were brought to light today. Investor confidence in mortgage backed securities is falling fast on a global scale, and signalling that the problems for the MBS market may be far from over. First, what is the mortgage backed securities market or MBS? Traditionally, banks took deposits from clients, and then turned around and loaned out money and made interest. This was fine, but it doesn&amp;#8217;t take a genius to see that if everyone came at once to the bank for their funds, the bank would be in real trouble! This is referred to as a &amp;#8220;run on the bank,&amp;#8221; and it happened very recently in England with Northern Rock, a mortgage lender. To alleviate this pressure, banks have started to sell off their mortgages as soon as they write them. Selling a mortgage isn&amp;#8217;t that easy on the scale that the banks face, so they package the mortgages up into MBS (mortgage backed securities) and sell them off for a profit to offshore banks, trust companies, and the like. Now before any financial analyst jumps on me, YES, this is a horrible simplification of a very complex transaction, but it serves the purpose! Historically, those MBS investments were seen as very secure as they were backed with a mortgage (it&amp;#8217;s right there in the name) and at the same time the mortgages were backed with real estate. As long as real estate continued to rise, it seems like they were the safest investment in town. For a while, they were! However, as people gained more trust in these securities, they stopped doing as much due-diligence as they should: such as asking, &amp;#8220;who were these mortgage funds loaned to?&amp;#8221; The answer to this question ranged from very solid borrowers, to down-right liars and crooks. However, as an investor buying the securites, it was impossible to know who was borrowing the funds as they were buying mortgages in massive blocks of hundreds of millions of dollars. As those mortgages started to go into default, the investors turned back to the banks to issued the MBS and issued a resounding complaint and wanted the bad mortgages replaced with good ones. When the issue was smaller, the lenders were able to do this. However, it is becoming clear that lots, if not a majority, of the loans in these MBS investments were very bad and issued to people with dicey credit, poor jobs, or unverifiable income. Now, as the market matures, and as the problems work themselves out, more and more investment houses that brokered these transactions and set up these investments are going bankrupt having to honour contractual obligations to the investors. In light of this, several large brokerages are going under, out of business, and receiving bailouts. Early this morning, Lehman Brothers (4th largest investment bank on Wall Street) filed for bankruptcy protection after a week of turmoil that saw its stock value plummet 80%. As well, Bank of America came to the rescue of Merill Lynch with a buyout. Rumours were rampant that Merill Lynch was also on the verge of bankruptcy. Lehman Brothers could not be saved despite intervention of the US Feds in trying to broker a deal. AIG is also in turmoil. As the single largest insurer of mortgage paper in the United States, and recently expanding aggressively into Canada, it will be interesting to see what happens to mortgages that banks have loaned with AIG as the insurer. If AIG goes under, and a borrower defaults, the bank may eat the loss, and this signals perhaps the end of the insurer expansion into Canada for the time being. All these developments come on the heels for the US Fed taking over Fannie May and Freddie Mac just a week ago. Shareholders are losing all of their investment in order to insure debt holders are paid out and protected to preserve confidence. This is also just in the wake of Bear Sterns being being bailed out a few months ago. This will have a major impact on the availability of funds worldwide, and even us in Canada with our prudent lending practices and lower-risk attitude are surely going to see a further tightening of credit. Last year at this time, I was able to get damned near anything approved if the client had a down payment of 25% or more. However, in this market, money is disappearing into a void, and cash is king. There are going to be many more announcements like this, I suspect. It should also be noted that one major lender has just canceled their variable rate mortgage. More changes in the Canadian Real Estate market are on the way. I think my mentality was turned from neutral to bearish today. Maybe I&amp;#8217;ll wake up and feel more content tomorrow, but something tells me that is wishful thinking. 
