After Bank of Americas (BAC) Ken Lewis said on CNBC today that dividend cuts are on the table along with other options for raising capital, I closed my latest covered call trade on the stock. That is, I bought back call options that I had sold short and sold the stock.   And there were other fundamental and technical reasons I sold BAC.    Financial stocks are plunging, and they could go down another 10% or 20% by the end of the month, if not by the end of the week.    BAC wasnt the weakest financial stock today. Lehman (LEH) and American International Group (AIG) took that honor. But cut my profit on the trade in half and I just didnt want to risk losing it all, and there was no reason to let a nice profit turn into a loss.   The reason the banking and investment banking stocks looked so weak is that when I sold, the credit rating agencies were threatening to cut AIGs credit rating. And that had the potential for more trouble in the financials.   After the close, Standard &amp;amp; Poors and Moodys indeed cut their credit ratings on AIG because it hadnt raised the $40 billion they wanted it to, according to numerous reports by the financial media.   A long-feared dividend cut by BAC would be devastating for the stock. Since the company refused to promise that its very generous dividend wont be cut, it makes no sense to me to own the stock. Its just too risky for me.   BACs acquisition of Merrill Lynch (MER) also strikes me as a bad idea. MER may bring more mortgage-related write offs to Bank of America, which still is integrating its acquisition earlier this year of the savings and loan company, Countrywide. And Citigroup (C) has pretty much shown that the financial conglomerate that BAC is building is tough to manage, grow and sell to investors. There just are too many unknowns and risks in the acquisition.   And a less important reason for selling BAC that comes to mind now is that the last thing we need is another financial monster that is too big to fail and may need a government bailout.    For educational purposes only. Investigate before you speculate.
