Stocks in Europe and Asia have tumbled, while the U.S. futures and the dollar slumped as credit market turmoil pushed Lehman Brothers into bankruptcy and Merrill Lynch to accept a takeover bid from Bank of America. UBS AG, the hardest hit European bank by subprime-related losses, sank over 7.2 percent; while Macquarie Group Australia's largest investment bank declined 11 percent following reports that the American International Group is seeking USD 40 Billion bridge loan from the Federal Reserve. The FTSE 100 fell 122 points (2.25 percent) at around 8.30 this morning.Lehman, once the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank, has said that it intends to file for bankruptcy after Barclays and Bank of America abandoned talks to buy the crippled firm, with Bank of America agreeing to purchase Merrill Lynch, the world largest Brokerage firm with reports it will cost them in the region of $50 Billion.To help Wall Street prepare for Lehman's bankruptcy, the Federal Reserve increased the collateral that it accepts for emergency loans to securities firms, which is formed of a group of 10 banks including JP Morgan Chases, Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, who have separately formed USD70Billion to ensure there will be market liquidity.There was no surprise in the currency markets with the U.S. dollar tumbling against the majority of currencies following the weekend's events, with the Federal Reserve launching a series of emergency measures on Sunday to calm financial markets and ease any trading disruptions the US currency took an expected downturn after weeks of significant strength. With a week of significant economic releases we will see substantial volatility in the market.Following this, speculation has risen that the Fed will reduce the benchmark lending rate at Tuesday's meeting from 2 percent; it has in fact risen from a certainty that there would be no change to rates to speculation ranging between a 10-60 percent chance there will be a change. The Australian dollar took advantage of the woes in the US by rising to one week highs following recent losses. Bond futures surged on safe-haven inflows while speculation rose on chat that the Fed could lower rates.The contents of this blog are for information purposes only. It is not intended as a recommendation to trade or a solicitation for funds. The Wise Money Blog cannot be held responsible for any loss or damages arising from any action taken following consideration of this information. 
