 By Paul Singer, Jennifer Yachnin and Casey Hynes - (Roll Call)  Everything that you are about to read might be wrong. Roll Calls annual attempt to rank the riches of Members of Congress is hampered by one fundamental flaw: It is based on the lawmakers financial disclosure forms, which are extraordinarily unreliable sources of information.  The disclosure rules allow Members to report assets in broad categories, so there is no way to tell the difference between a $20 million investment and a $5 million investment. The top category on the Members forms is over $50 million, so it is impossible to accurately account for anything worth more than that  like a professional sports team, for example. There is also a gaping loophole for assets owned by the Members spouse or dependent children; anything worth more than $1 million in value can be reported as over $1 million. There is no way to tell whether that is $1.2 million or $1.2 billion.  The rules also dont require reporting things of value that are not used to produce income  most notably any primary residence or other home that is not used for rentals. That loophole removes from most Members portfolios hundreds of thousands of dollars and in come cases millions of dollars worth of assets. Airplanes, fancy cars, antiques or other valuable items are not reported.  In filing a detailed disclosure form on behalf of Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), his accountants added this editorial note, which sums up the problem: The form is meant to comply with Senate disclosure rules but is not intended to be a complete presentation of Senator Corkers financial position.  Beyond all of these flaws, there remains the fact that many, many financial disclosure forms filed by Members of Congress are simply inaccurate. A check mark placed in the wrong box can inflate or deflate a Members apparent net worth by millions of dollars, and misunderstandings of the rules have led Members to understate some assets, overstate others and claim additional assets they no longer own.  Where the errors are obvious or have created noticeable discrepancies from prior-year filings, Roll Call has attempted to contact the offices to get a proper understanding of the actual value of the asset or assets in question.  What remains below is a ranking of the 50 wealthiest Members of Congress based on the minimum net worth reported on their financial disclosure forms. To achieve these numbers, Roll Call totaled the assets listed on financial disclosure forms filed in 2008 (covering calendar year 2007) using the lowest number in the ranges in which Members are required to report. An asset from $500,000 to $1 million is counted as being worth $500,000, unless the Member has provided a brokerage statement or other documentation that offers more specific detail.  Liabilities, which are also reported in ranges, are calculated based on the minimum value, and are subtracted from total minimum assets to establish total net worth.  Assets that are not included on the forms but have values that have been established by Roll Call or other publications are not included for the purposes of assembling this ranking, because the Members are not required to report these numbers. This ranking is based only on what is reported on the annual disclosure forms.   1. Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.) $230.98 million  The Massachusetts Senator claims the mantel of richest Member in the 110th Congress. Kerrys actual holdings, however  including those of wife Teresa Heinz Kerry, widow to ketchup heir Sen. John Heinz (R-Pa.)  are likely much greater.  In an April 2008 article, Forbes.com estimated Heinz Kerrys net worth at $1 billion.  Kerrys disclosure forms list the value of more than 180 assets  including Heinz family trusts and investment funds  only as over $1 million, rather than the more specific ranges including $1 million to $5 million. Senators are allowed to list assets in the over $1 million category only if the items are held independently by a spouse or dependent child.  2. Rep. Jane Harman (D-Calif.) $225.96 million  The wealthy Californian, who remains heavily invested in Harman International Industries, has seen her wealth increase nearly $10 million since filing her 2006 report.  Harmans report lists three accounts, including one held solely by her husband, totaling a combined minimum of $125 million in stock and options in the company. Harmans spouse founded the company, which manufactures electronics under the brand names AKG Acoustics, Harman Kardon, Infinity and JBL, among others.  In addition, Harman, who has no outstanding debts, lists a trust fund worth $1.8 million and an additional $2 million in multiple hedge fund accounts. 3. Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) $160.62 million  The Golden State lawmaker added $2 million to his bottom line in 2007, increasing his fortune by a little more than 1 percent.  Issa, founder of the Vista, Calif.-based Directed Electronics, which manufactures car alarms, claims an investment worth at least $50 million in DEI and $25 million to $50 million in Greene Properties Inc. Both corporations own and operate office and industrial properties in California.  His portfolio also comprises numerous investment funds, including a dozen valued at a minimum of $5 million each.  4. Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) $80.40 million  A descendant of oil tycoon John D. Rockefeller, the West Virginians vast assets remained stable in 2007, as his net worth increased by a little more than 1 percent.  Rockefellers fortunes are stored primarily in three blind trusts with JPMorgan Chase &amp;#038; Co., Wachovia Corp. and United National Bank, valued at more than $50 million, $25 million to $50 million, and $5 million to $25 million, respectively.  Another family trust is listed at simply over $1 million.  The Senator lists at least $5.5 million in debt on two loans, down from $6.5 million in 2006, when he listed an additional $1 million loan from United National Bank in Charleston, W.Va.  5. Rep. Robin Hayes (R-N.C.) $78.96 million  The Tar Heel State lawmakers wealth more than doubled since 2006, when he identified about $36 million in assets.  According to Hayes office, the increase, including more than $36 million in new trust funds, is the result of an inheritance. Hayes mother passed away in 2007.  Among the holdings in Hayes numerous trust funds are a mix of stocks and bonds, as well as properties including land in Lake County, Minn., and Sheldon, S.C., valued at least $5 million and $1 million, respectively.  The funds include at least $1 million in stock in corporations such as Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch Shell, Merck, Pfizer, General Electric and Altria, the parent company of Philip Morris USA.  The North Carolinian also lists a commercial loan of at least $1 million to finance his private airplane.  6. Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-Fla.) $65.49 million  Buchanan, the owner of several car dealerships, watched his wealth dip slightly in the past year, dropping $1.74 million, or more than 2 percent below his 2006 total.  While the Florida lawmakers empire  comprising several automobile dealerships, an aircraft charter business, real estate holdings and investment accounts  amounts to $102.34 million, it carries with it nearly $37 million in debt.  Included in that figure are new purchases in 2007: a King Air 350 aircraft and a Learjet, both listed as debts valued at $5 million to $25 million from SunTrust Leasing of Baltimore.  He also lists an Embraer Legacy from the same creditor for $5 million to $25 million.  7. Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.) $55.33 million  Lautenberg, who made millions from the payroll processing company he created five decades ago, reported that his total minimum assets jumped about 24 percent, from $45 million in 2006, but that number is still not very revealing. Lautenbergs two biggest assets are two blind trusts that he set up for himself, each worth $5 million to $25 million. Together they count for $10 million of his assets for this list, though they could be worth five times that amount.  The major increase over last year appears to be in his wifes assets. She has several family trusts in her name, mostly holding real estate, and between 2006 and 2007 she received additional assets from her mother, Lautenbergs office said.  So in 2006, Lautenberg reported that through an entity called LCBS Corp. his wife held over $1 million of Mira Loma Associates, a company holding residential real estate in Riverside, Calif. In 2007, Mira Loma was listed twice at over $1 million  once as part of LCBS and once as a separate asset in Bonnie Englebardt Lautenbergs name. Several of her family trusts also purchased real estate and other assets worth more than $5 million in 2007.  8. Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) $52.34 million  Together with her husband, financier Richard Blum, Feinstein claims a diversified portfolio that grew by $1.8 million, or an increase of just under 4 percent, since 2006.  The Californian lists assets with her husband that include ownership of all or part of numerous limited partnerships.  Among those, the Blum Family Partners, owned entirely by Blum, claims over $1 million in stock in RAE Systems, a manufacturer of chemical and radiation detection equipment. The fund also includes over $1 million in a real estate investment trust.  In addition, Feinstein lists a $5 million to $25 million investment in Carlton Hotel Properties in San Francisco and owns condos in both Tahoe City, Calif., and on Kauai in Hawaii, both valued at $1 million to $5 million.  Feinstein also lists at least $2 million in debt to Bank of America for two loans made to Blum Capital Partners.  9. Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) $47.62 million  Much of Kennedys wealth stems from family trusts, and the Massachusetts Senator reported almost no change in 2007, with an increase of less than 1 percent.  Kennedy lists one family trust valued from $25 million to $50 million,...
