The Bush Administration is moving quickly toward a plan to buy dud loans and other bad debt from financial companies. Details are sketchy but it sounds like the government is moving to a plan similar to one used during the Great Depression. I previously did a detailed interview with David Wheelock, assistant vice president in the research division of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, on how that worked. Basically, the government set up a separate agency to buy distressed home loans and refinance them at more affordable payments. That is a bit different from what the government did during the savings and loan crisis of the late &amp;#8217;80s and early &amp;#8217;90s. During that chaos the government created an agency to sell the assets of failed thrifts  those were often commercial real estate or loans tied to it. Here&amp;#8217;s the key question and answer from the Wheelock interview&amp;#8230;. Q. Some experts have called for the government to create a fund/company to buy up distressed loans and refinance them at steep discounts to help cash-strapped homeowners avoid foreclosure. They call for a return of the Resolution Trust Corporation, which liquidated the assets of failed savings and loans from 1989 to 1995. But after reading your report I think a better analogy would be the Home Owners Loan Corporation, which bought up troubled mortgages during the Great Depression. Could you give readers a brief history lesson about the HOLC? A. The HOLC was created in 1933 and authorized for a period of three years to purchase and refinance delinquent home mortgages. The HOLC purchased mortgages directly from lenders in exchange either for HOLC bonds or cash. HOLC mortgages were limited to a maximum of 80 percent of the appraised value of the underlying property or $14,000, whichever was less. Between 1933 and 1936, the HOLC purchased just over 1 million mortgages, though nearly half of the applications it received were rejected or withdrawn. The HOLC restructured the loans it acquired as fixed-rate, 15-year amortizing loans. The HOLC was liquidated in 1951. Over its life, the HOLC approximately broke even, benefiting both from rising home prices and household incomes after the trough of the Depression in 1933, and generally falling interest rates, which lowered its funding costs. To read the entire interview, which I think just became highly relevant, CLICK HERE. Here&amp;#8217;s more of the Register&amp;#8217;s mortgage crisis coverage&amp;#8230;  Market meltdown: What you need to know O.C. finance stocks continue to rally Downeys 42% gain leads O.C. stocks revival Obama mocks McCains call to fire SECs Cox Cox responds to McCains attack McCain: Fire SEC head Christopher Cox Is your AIG insurance policy safe?  Other mortgage news &amp;#8230;  More O.C. residents paying their credit cards  O.C.s growing foreclosure backlog  Banks seize record number of O.C. homes  O.C. fixed mortgage rates drop, but adjustables could spike  Impac Mortgage narrows loss to $31 million  O.C. mortgage rates stay low amid Wall St. turmoil  Merrill, Lehman and the morphing mortgage foodchain  Foreclosure of the week: family home in Irvine?  Downey downgraded  Why arent foreclosures cheaper?  
