The past 2 days is the beginning of the worst-to-come as a result of the Subprime Crisis. The idea of bankers trading huge volumes of collateralized debt holdings into tranches and selling them for commision-cum-profit has shown a bad light on US Investment Bankers. Before Bear Stearns failed, there was some regional commercial banks in Europe that had to be supported by the government and just when many thought that all has been disclosed, Lehman Brothers dropped another bombshell this week. The once-venerable banking institution with more than a century old of history has fallen. Another, being Merrill Lynch is taken over by Bank of America, the largest retail bank in the States. Has the golden age of investment banking passed by in this era? Maybe. Legislations passed a decade ago altered the landscape of banking, creating mega financial institutions that held sway over corporate America and much of the world. Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, UBS, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Lehman, etc all have done great deals, even in Asia, bringing together mega-mergers, huge IPOs. But mistakes (or maybe greed) by some bankers will change the way people see these once reputable companies. The subprime crisis began when mortgage companies worked with developers to create &amp;#8216;abundant&amp;#8217; wealth, giving the impression of providing cheap credit for the first couple of years to get new houses in Americansuburbanneighborhoods. It&amp;#8217;s a false impression, of course, when interest rates starts to go up, and cash flow becomes a problem to foot monthly mortgage repayments. In the part of mortgage companies, they wanted more, so they got investment banks to sell these debts to investors. While developers, seeing the profit in properties, constructed more. Naively, they think things were good, and could only get better. Then, inflation came, but the US economy was still strong, they say, with high employment rates. Next came the oil prices increase and commodities boom, with oil peaking at US$147, and prices of wheat, corn, soybean, metals and other basic necessities peaking with 20 odd years high. Companies struggle for profits, and households reduce unnecessary expenditure, but still couldn&amp;#8217;t manage the much higher prices of gas. So, in the end, many more houses got foreclosure notices, and housing prices drop. By then, investment banks have sold some of the subprime debt as collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), and funds/investors took up insurance against losses of these credit derivatives. The first one to fall was the property developers, as no one bought new houses, after that was the mortgage companies, with many of them having credit problems as cash flow did not materialize from mortgage repayments. Following these, banks started not getting credit payments for their debts from property developers, mortgage companies or even the man on the street as they got bankrupted. As the payments from CDOs failed to materialize, hedge funds and investment banks holding large amounts of these instruments find them turning worthless overnight. If these financial companies hold CDOs in their balance sheets, it means they have got to find the equivalent amount to cover their reserve ratio. When banks show signs of trouble, clients withdraw money and they lose business as no corporation dares to take the risk of doing business with them. Which is what happened to Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers. Last, but not least, the trouble goes to insurance companies that insures &amp;#8216;investors&amp;#8217; against credit defaults. AIG, the largest insurer in the States, found itself in the position. And just today, the US government is taking out US$85 billion of its own money to AIG for close to 80% stake in the insurer. It was estimated that the subprime crisis have wiped out over US$500 billion of wealth. To show the immensity of the loss, Bill Gates is worth roughly US$50 billion. That&amp;#8217;s the wealth of more than 10 Bill Gates&amp;#8217;, and definitely larger than the reserves of more than 80% of the countries in the world. For a trouble caused by a group of companies, that&amp;#8217;s a huge amount. What else could happen? Well for a start, I do think we are still in half-time down here. US$500 billion is perhaps half of what the subprime market is worth. Estimates have put the housing mortgage market in the States at US$12 trillion. Assuming subprime is about 10% of the market, that&amp;#8217;s US$1.2 trillion. 500 billion is less than half of the subprime, and that&amp;#8217;s not considering any prime mortgages that have fallen as a result of the spillover from the credit crunch. That&amp;#8217;s why I think it&amp;#8217;s still half time to the finale. What else could be expected to fall? First off, one of the US automakers looks to be in a predicament. Some private equity firm, possible? Also vulnerable would be airliners who will suffer the brunt of high oil prices with decreasing demand. 
