     ...far more than you did before!     The events of the last few weeks have been unprecedented as we all know, unless you have been living under a rock.  So who was regulating the regulators?    Some economists are comparing the current real estate cycle to the 1990s but the origin of this cycle is different from that of the last decade. During the 1990s, a higher rate of unemployment and many other economic factors triggered the downturn, contributing to weak sales for a five-year period.  The current real estate market is different in that sales declined at a quicker pace during 2006 and 2007, but have shown marked improvement in 2008.  In July home sales remained above the 400,000 level for the third consecutive month.     Although home prices in California appear to be high compared with incomes, the current cycle has allowed home prices in California to become realigned with incomes.   Affordability increased dramatically in the second quarter of this year, and is currently at 48 percent, meaning that nearly half of the states households can afford to purchase an entry-level home in California.   Some economists predict that the housing market will have several false starts, meaning that there may be periods when home prices reach a plateau, or may even increase for a brief period, and then decrease again.  Although home prices have not yet stabilized, home sales are increasing.&amp; #160; It also is important to note that real estate is cyclical and prices will eventually rebound, correcting the current market. First a little bit about whats happened since Sunday.  Merrill Lynch has merged with Bank of America, and Lehman Brothers has filed for bankruptcy.  Both of these are enormous pieces of financial news.  Lehman Brothers bankruptcy was the largest in American history, and Merrill Lynch needing to merge to stay alive are both significant happenings.  But guess who were two very large offenders of purchasing or originating Sub Prime and Alt-A mortgage loans.  You guessed it, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers.    Lehman brothers was famous for the No Income / No Job / No Assets (NINJA) financing, and they would go up to 100% financing on that towards the end of their run.  Basically you had to pass two tests to get a loan, first you had to have a credit score of over 680, and second you had to pass the fog the mirror test.  Basically, if you had a credit score and pulse, you got a loan.  There were hundreds of mortgage bankers who originated loans on behalf of Lehman Brothers and sold these investments to them after the close.  These loans were considered Alt-A loans because you still had generally good credit, but could not qualify for a traditional loan.    Merrill Lynch thought it would be a good idea to buy one of the largest sub prime mortgage originators, First Franklin back in Sept. 2006.  Their timing couldnt have been worse!  First Franklin was famous for offering 100% financing on interest only 2 year ARMs to borrowers with very low credit scores of 580 or better.  When the loans reset the rates would typically move from 6.0% interest only to 11% and be amortized over 28 years principal and interest.  Time has taught us that this was a bad idea once the housing boom stopped appreciating over 10% per year.  They lost out HUGE with this investment in First Franklin and thats a major reason why they needed to merge with Bank of America to stay afloat.    Currently AIG is suffering and needs to around 70 billion in cash by the end of today to stay afloat.  They were also a major investor in Sub Prime loans.  The moral of the story, those financial institutions that made bad investments are suffering.  The positive lining here is we are not experiencing a collapse of major financial institutions at random.  The ones who are failing were major offenders of Sub Prime and Alt-A mortgage loans.     At the regularly scheduled Fed meeting this morning, they decided to hold the short term rates steady.  The federal funds rate currently sits at 2.0% where it has been since April of 2008.  The market was calling for a Fed rate reduction of 0.25% to 0.50% at todays meeting, but the Fed ignored this call and held strong.  I can see the potential borrowers out there now all crying because they wanted the Fed to drop rates.  Well, now would be another good time to educate our clients that a Fed rate reduction does not usually translate into lower 30 year fixed mortgage rates.  In fact we will typically see higher 30 year fixed rates when the Fed lowers the Federal Funds Rate.    U.S. Dept. of the Treasury Secretary Paulson today announced that Congress and the administration intend to take poorly performing assets, primarily mortgage-backed securities, off the books of financial institutions.  These assets have been a prime impediment to the ability of financial institutions to lend money.  The government also prohibited the short sale of nearly 800 financial institutions for 10 days, and may extend this prohibition to 30 days.  The U.S. Dept. of the Treasury also plans to increase the amount of mortgage-backed securities bought from government sponsored enterprises (GSEs) Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, in an effort to increase the GSEs role in the housing market.  The Federal Reserve and other major financial institutions worldwide also made hundreds of billions of dollars in loans available to commercial banks in an effort to improve liquidity.  The California Association of Realtors' expectation is that Congress and the administration will work together to craft legislation as early as next week addressing these critical issues. We expect to have a good sense of what the legislation will contain by this weekend, prior to financial markets opening Monday morning.       
