 It is time for me to rant and rave. In yet another example of Corporate greed run amok, on Monday, the news broke that Citibank was going to take possession of a brand spanking new Corporate Jet worth $50,000,000. That&#8217;s right, count all the zeros. Their logic was that they were upgrading from two older jets, which by the way have not been sold yet. So this is where some of our $45,000,000,000 (that&#8217;s right, count all those zeros) bail out is going. Well it seems that some Obama officials have laid the law down and have told Citibank that they need to make this all go away. From the Huff Post:  According to a report from ABC News, President Obama is not taking kindly to corporate greed, especially when it&#8217;s funded by taxpayer money. Read more from ABC here: The high-flying execs at Citigroup caved under pressure from President Obama and decided today to abandon plans for a luxurious new $50 million corporate jet from France&#8230; The problem is that Congress cannot even tell us where all this money is going. The unemployment rate is growing by the day. Home Depot, Sprint, GM, Caterpillar and Pfizer will be laying off a combined total of approximately 45,000 jobs. While people are waiting on unemployment lines, these corporations continue to run their companies like drunken sailors. If I were to run my household this way I would be out on the street without a roof over my head. It is imperative that we force our elected officials to stay on top of this. It is apparent that these banks cannot be trusted to do what is best for the country. So now that Citibank has been told to &#8220;fix it&#8221;, lets see if they are capable of doing anything that is not self serving.     Tagged: Airplanes, Business News, Citi, Citi Jet, Citibank Corporate Greed, Citigroup, Citigroup And Obama, Citigroup Jet, Corporate Jets, Dassault Falcon 7X, New Planes For Citibank, Obama And Corporate Greed, Obama And The Citibank Jet, Obama Slams Citigroup, Obama's First 100 Days        
