 Virtually everyone is enjoying the convenience of shopping with credit cards. We find offers in our mailboxes, asking us to sign up for credit cards that offer everything from frequent flyer miles to cash back rewards. There is no single credit card that is right for everyone. But you can find the best card to suit your needs by asking yourself a few questions before you apply. Question 1: Whats the interest rate? High interest rates can be a big expense for the consumer if the balance is not paid in full every month. Many consumers are better off using a credit card that has a fixed rate, even if that rate is a little higher than theyd get with an adjustable rate credit card. Adjustable rate credit cards will always fluctuate in relation to the national interest rate; when the national interest rate is low, low-interest offers become more readily available. But as the national interest rate becomes higher, so will the interest charged on an adjustable rate credit card. Fixed-rate credit cards help people spend less when they carry a balance from month to month. Question 2: What features does the card offer? Are you looking to transfer balances from several accounts, or would you prefer airline miles or cash back rewards? Perhaps you need a card specifically for your business. Maybe you just want a card to keep on hand for emergencies. What special offers interest you? Many credit cards offer support for a specific charity or organization. For example, Bank of America will make a contribution to the Elton John AIDS Foundation when you open a new credit card account and make purchases with the card. Decide which features are most important to you before you apply for a credit card.  Question 3: What is the policy regarding late or missed payments? Take the steps to use your credit card responsibly and avoid debt management problems. Always pay your credit card statements in a timely manner that abides with your agreed-upon card usage. Do your homework and learn everything you need to know before applying for your credit card. Always check for hidden fees or late charges that can carry a hefty price; late fees are commonly $39 or more. And remember that creditors will raise your interest rate if you make late payments  sometimes as high as 30%! Before you choose a card, visit your bank or go online to compare the very best credit card offers. Find one you like, and it wont be long before youre ready to pay with plastic. Visit BestCreditCardRatings.com, compare and apply for credit cards online.             
