  "You know what the news is-- in a minute, you're going to hear the rest of the story"- Paul Harvey  As the market continues to attempt to get up off of the mat, the bear continues to pound the poor bull with a series of hooks, and uppercuts. Attempting to guess where the market is technically is an attempt at guessing where the magician is hiding the rabbit.  This said, a market without leadership constantly disappoints. Magically, with help from the media, pessimism has re-emerged convincing investors that lasting damage has occurred to the major indexes.  If the historical pattern hold true, stocks can be expected to move higher six months prior to a bottom in economy. Pessimism is now widespread, as the AAII survey of individual investors remains above the more optimistic readings that we saw earlier in the month.  The real contrarian tales continue to surface daily on our TV sets, and radios. Adds encouraging the public to buy gold and sell stocks continue to pound the airwaves. News talk shows are telling people to stock their pantries with food, and get ready for Armageddon.  While the negative tone can last as longer than we would like, we need to understand that the bullish tone last much much longer than it should have as well.  I find it amusing that lenders are surprised that consumers cannot afford to payback their credit card debt and mortgage payments. I am actually enjoying watching these scumbags squirm after they gave exorbitant credit limits to people who didn't have the propensity to payback the loan.  I was trying to council an 80 year old man whose only income was a $1400/ month social security income. You may not believe this, but he had over $2000 on 8 different credit cards along with an $18000 debt on his personal credit-line.  The credit card culprits were the following;  1) Two (2) Bank of America credit cards with a credit limit of $3500/ card. 2) Two JP Morgan Chase cards with a credit limit of $3000/ card. 3) One Discover card with a credit limit of $3500. 4) Two Mastercards, 1 being an AARP card with a credit limit of $3000/ card. 5) One Visa with a credit limit of $3000.  These loan sharks know when they do a credit check what a persons debt/income ratio is before they extend credit. Now they are scrambling to get consumers to pay what they owe after extending excessive credit in hopes to receive the minimum payment along with a 20% plus interest rate. What scumbags!  In the end, they had to be complete morons to believe they would ever get their money back. Did they really believe people were honest enough, or honorable enough to payoff these loans? The same goes for lenders who issued no money down mortgages.   So, to you idiot lenders. Here's what you should do. Go get some TARP.  T- Too  A- Asinine R- to Render P- Payment  Today, the Dow and S&amp;P 500 gave back all of yesterday's gains, and then some. The number of Americans receiving unemployment benefits soared to record levels while Eastman Kodak and Allstate lost money and cut jobs.  The Commerce Department said that new home sales dropped to the lowest level since they began keeping records in 1963.   Despite all the gloom, the Obama administration is close to implementing a plan to buy up toxic assets from banks' balance sheets, which will in turn jump start lending again.  I have not spoken to one person who is optimistic about the future of the economy or the stock market. This is why I am bullish.    
