New York Times Maureen Dowd takes on corporate welfare queens in her latest column. Ouch!!! As President Obama spreads his New Testament balm over the capital, Im longing for a bit of Old Testament wrath. Couldnt he throw down his BlackBerry tablet and smash it in anger over the feckless financiers, the gods of gold and their idols  in this case not a gilt calf but an $87,000 area rug, a cache of diamond Tiffany and Cartier watches and a French-made luxury corporate jet? Now that were nationalizing, couldnt we fire any obtuse bankers and auto executives who cling to perks and bonuses even as the economy is following John Thain down his antique commode? How could Citigroup be so dumb as to go ahead with plans to get a new $50 million corporate jet, the exclusive Dassault Falcon 7X seating 12, after losing $28.5 billion in the past 15 months and receiving $345 billion in government investments and guarantees? (Now I get why a $400 payment I recently sent to pay off my Citibank Visa was mistakenly applied to my sister-in-laws Citibank Mastercard account.) The Citiboobs  as The New York Post, which broke the news, calls them  watched as the car chieftains got in trouble for flying their private jets to Washington to ask for bailouts, and the A.I.G. moguls got dragged before Congress for spending their bailout on California spa treatments. But the boobs still didnt get the message. The former masters of the universe dont seem to fully comprehend that their universe has crumbled and, thanks to them, so has ours. Real people are losing real jobs at Caterpillar, Home Depot and Sprint Nextel; these and other companies announced on Monday that they would cut more than 75,000 jobs in the U.S. and around the world, as consumer confidence and home prices swan-dived. Along with President Obama&#8217;s scolding about Wall Street bonuses to the tune of $18.4 BILLION &#8212; paid to the very people who made sure our economy melted down &#8212; Ms Dowd&#8217;s kick down must have more than a few ears burning on Wall Street. Of course, that assumes they possess anything related to a conscience. So probably not&#8230; Read the rest of Maureen Dowd&#8217;s op-ed here. 
