SAN DIEGO " According to Tigerwoods.com, Woods and members of the Tiger Woods Design team joined The Flagship Group and guests at Punta Brava in Mexico on Sunday for a preview event introducing the private golf and ocean club's Champions Club. Woods' stop at Punta Brava was on the way to his hosting the 2008 Chevron World Challenge presented by Bank of America held at Sherwood Country Club. The Flagship Group and Tiger Woods Design first announced plans for Punta Brava, situated 65 miles south of San Diego, in October 2008. Scheduled for completion in early 2011, the centerpiece of Punta Brava will be the first oceanfront course designed by Woods. The private golf and ocean club is located at the tip of a peninsula that extends seven miles into the ocean on the Pacific coast. 'My goal is to design a collection of amazing golf courses around the world,' Woods said during the visit. 'To do this, I try to pick the best sites, find the best partners, and create exceptional course designs. This project is a great fit for me because the site is amazing, The Flagship Group is a fantastic partner, and we've created an exceptional design.' 'It's a rare opportunity to be able to put 17 greens or tees on the ocean and have eight shots playing over the Pacific. Couple that with views of the ocean from every hole and you have a place that's pretty special,' said Woods. The inaugural Punta Brava Champions Club event gave members the opportunity for a private tour with Woods to hear about his design vision. 'Champions Club at Punta Brava consists of a select group of individuals who are integral to shaping the foundation and vision for Punta Brava's membership, as well as benefit from exclusive membership opportunities at the private golf and ocean club,' explained The Flagship Group Chairman Brady Oman. 'We're very pleased that our Champions Club members and partners could experience and enjoy the site with Tiger today.' Woods added, 'I'm excited to have been able to spend the day with Champions Club members. This is an important group who will shape the private golf experience at Punta Brava. I really enjoyed walking the site with them and sharing my thoughts on the course that we are creating here.' 
