Monster Jam Back to U.S. Bank Arena   with Biggest Truck Lineup Ever  Grave Digger, Batman, Monster Mutt, Donkey Kong and More Ready for Action Filled Weekend  Monster Jam is all set to come back to Cincinnati bigger and better than it has ever been before. On January 3-4, 2009, Monster Jam returns to the U.S. Bank Arena with what should be the most spectacular show ever in Cincinnati. World champions Grave Digger and Batman headline a world class group of trucks that also includes Donkey Kong, Avenger, Brutus and Monster Mutt, driven by female driver Candice Jolly.  Monster trucks will compete in both head-to-head racing and the fan favorite freestyle. The freestyle competition gives the trucks the chance to run wild with the goal being to be the most crowd-pleasing. The trucks will attempt sky wheelies, cyclone style donuts, and possibly a roll over.  Tickets are on sale now! Adult Mid-level tickets are $18 in advance. All children tickets are $5 in advance. Premium Gold Circle tickets are $20 for all ages. All tickets increase $2 more the day of the show. Tickets are available at the U.S. Bank Arena box office, by phone at (513) 562-4949, online at Ticketmaster.com, or through Ticketmaster outlets. The show time for the event is 7:30pm on Saturday and 2:00pm on Sunday. The gates will open an hour prior the start of the event.  For more information about Monster Jam, log on to www.monsterjamonline.com.   Enter to Win Monster Jam Prize Pack  Contest Has Ended...Congratulations to our Winners:  You must be 18 or older to enter and win. A random drawing will be held at noon on Monday, December 22 to select five winners.  Winners must pick up their prize package at the FOX19 Studios, Monday through Friday from 9:00 AM to 3:00 PM (office closed on 12/25/08 and 1/1/09).   Prize winners are limited to one prize per 30 days per person and per household.  To enter the contest, simply input your e-mail address in the Contest Entry Box below and click 'Submit'. You will then be prompted to enter your personal password. After your password has been entered click Login and this will take you to the Contest Entry Page where you will verify your contact information, and check the box that you have read the rules and private policy statement. Click Submit and your entry will be sent to FOX19.  Contest Participants who have never Created an Account with FOX19:   To enter the contest, simply input your e-mail address in the Contest Entry Box below and click 'Submit'. You will then be directed to the Create an Account page in which you will enter your basic information. Please note that you are only required to enter basic information such as name, address, phone and zip code. You will also be asked to create a personal password. Be sure to write this down as it will be important for future FOX19 contests. After your information has been entered you must check the boxes that indicate you are at least 13 and that you have read the privacy policy. Once completed, click Save and you will be directed to the Contest Entry Page where you will verify your contact information, and check the box that you have read the rules and private policy statement. Click Submit and your entry will be sent to FOX19.  MAC Users or those experiencing difficulties with the form function below:   In some cases, the contest entry form software provided to FOX19 is not compatible with MAC formats. If you cannot enter via the box below, simply  . Make sure you include your Full Name, Address, City, State, Zip and Daytime Phone Number and enter 'Monster Jam' in the subject box.  Enter by Mail:  Send a post card with your full name, address and phone number to: FOX19 - 635 West 7th Street - Cincinnati, OH 45203 - Attention 'Monster Jam' Contest Good Luck!
