 CHICO A man who allegedly tried to rape a 65-year-old woman in a downtown restroom Thursday night, then assaulted a woman who came to her aid, is being sought by police.   Acting-Captain Lori McPhail said investigators worked through the night to locate the suspect, described as Hispanic, in his mid-to-late 20s, with a stocky build and a mustache. He was wearing dark clothing and a beanie cap at the time of the assaults.   The victim of the sexual battery, a Chico resident, was reportedly dining at Crush 201, a restaurant at 201 Broadway, when she left to use a restroom in the basement of the building about 9:30 p.m.   The suspect reportedly followed her into the room, threw her to the floor, and attempted to rape her.   The attack was interrupted when a 45-year-old woman from Willows and another female entered the bathroom.   The suspect reportedly grabbed the Willows resident and threw her to the floor before fleeing.   Both women received minor injuries. They were treated at Enloe Medical Center and released Thursday night.   Crush 201 co-owner Gino Fiori said he realizes that restrooms in the building, known as the Bank of America Building, are less than convenient for patrons. 'It's part of the obsolescence of the building,' he said, adding that the common facilities were planned to serve several possible tenants.   The only restrooms serving the restaurant are reached by descending three flights of stairs, or by taking an elevator to the main floor Advertisementthen descending another flight to the basement. The restrooms are found around a corner, about mid-way down a hallway.   The basement of the building has no tenants and is deserted most of the time. Lights near the entrance to the basement, and in the men's and women's bathrooms, are on sensors and come on automatically. 'Well be looking at the proximity of the bathrooms as a possible factor in this crime,' McPhail said. Fiori said the restaurant would take steps to ensure that such an incident never happens again, but didn't say what those steps might be. 'We feel very bad about this incident and we're just glad the women are going to be all right,' he said. Fiori said he didn't know if the two woman attacked Thursday were dining together.   Police said a man generally fitting the description of the suspect was located near the business Thursday night, but was released after questioning.   Anyone with information about the attack is urged to call Chico police at 897-4900.  
