POLICE are hunting for a woman dubbed the 'hot chocolate thief' who has allegedly stolen tens of thousands of dollars from her victims.  Police believe the thief has poured hot chocolate on three different women in the CBD last month before taking the victims into nearby toilets to help them clean the mess.   During that time she has managed to steal a total of $24,000 in cash from the women.   On November 12, about 11.10am, a woman withdrew $20,000 from the Commonwealth Bank on the corner of Collins and Queen Streets, and walked to Flinders Street where hot chocolate was poured over her back from behind when she was outside Banana Alley.   Police said the suspected thief approached the woman and offered her tissues before leading her into a toilet in a nearby fitness centre to help clean her. The cash is believed to have then been taken from the victim's handbag.   The alleged thief is believed to be in her 40s and is described as Caucasian, 165cm tall with red and brown straight shoulder-length hair.   She has an eastern European accent and on this occasion was wearing a grey business suit.   Investigators believe the same female struck on Monday 10 November, at about 2:10pm when a female withdrew $9000 cash from the ANZ bank on the corner of Collins and Elizabeth Streets.   The female walked over the foot bridge on the Yarra River when again, the offending female poured hot chocolate onto the victim from behind.   The victim became uncomfortable after the thief touched her bag, and she left before any money was taken.   On the same day, at about 4.20pm, a third female victim withdrew $4000 from the ANZ bank on the corner of Swanston and Little Bourke Streets before walking east along Little Bourke Street when hot chocolate was poured on her from behind.   The female was ushered into a nearby car park where her cash was stolen.   Police believe the offender may have worked with a male on this occasion who also spoke with an eastern European accent.   Police are appealing to anyone with information to contact Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000. 
