BENTON CITY-- While most families are sitting around the fire this time of year, one Benton City couple was watching theirs burn.   Fire crews from three districts tried to work quickly in freezing temperatures, but Alan and Eveline Creighton lost everything.'While I know that they lost a lifetime of memories, no one was hurt, and they'll still have the memories,' said family friend Jeff Seitz, who came to check on the Creightons. 'They just will not have the pictures and that type of thing.  Investigators say the fire broke out around 10:30 Saturday morning in the back utility room of the three bedroom house. Fire crews say the Creightons tried to extinguish it themselves, but it got out of control. The home was three quarters burned by the time engines could reach it. The couple's car was also destroyed in the fire.   Investigators said they did not know what caused the fire, but that the weather made a bad situation worse.'The house is completely destroyed,' said Benton County District Two Fire Chief Ron Duncan. 'We had about 10-mile per hour wind that pushed the fire, and this is in the rural area of the county, so it took about 15 minutes to get the second fire truck here before we could go in and attack the fire.'The Creightons went to a neighbor's to warm up from the single digit temperatures while crews hosed down the flames.  Four generations of family spent time together in the home, but the place where they made memories, is up in smoke.'It would be devastating at any time in your life, but they have a lifetime full of memories in this home,' said Lauren Seitz, another friend of the Creightons. 'We're just broken-hearted for them.'Friends and neighbors say the Creightons are involved in church and the community.'They reach out to anybody and everybody,' said Jeff Seitz. 'They're just very nice, very good-hearted people.'Christmas is five days away, and the elderly couple has nothing but the clothes on their backs. Now the people who open their arms to others, need some help themselves.  Evelyn works part-time at the Benton City Baptist Church, Allen is retired. If you would like to help the Creightons get back on their feet this Christmas, you can make a donation at US Bank in Benton City, where their friends opened an account for them. 
