Here is my bulletized and simple summary of how we got into this mess.  Since the new deal era, the government has established various entities and regulations to encourage home ownership, including the CRA, FHA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and made loan guarantees for many of the mortgages that were issued Some of these regulations and entities were established to assist people who could not obtain conventional mortgages and to prevent unethical practices such as redlining and other discriminatory lending practices. It is true that by traditional actuarial standards, many of these loans were given to individuals that had traditionally not been considered &amp;#8220;credit-worthy&amp;#8221;. However, the government did not force lenders to make bad loans. Many of the lenders since the 90s were Mortgage companies, not banks. Many of these companies are the mortgage-industry equivalent of check-cashing, payday loan companies and were not regulated under CRA or any other regulation.  Instead, lenders and brokers saw the sub-prime market as a cash cow where Brokers originated loans and immediately turned around and sold them, making their full commission but not having to be responsible for the long-term result. Most of the mortgages were sold to big banks and bundled into various types of securities and derivatives. AIG and other banks and insurance companies provided products to insure these security assets against loss in value.The primary product was an unregulated and difficult to understand derivative called a credit default swap. Because of these products, banks felt that they were insured against the risks of subprime lending.  As a result, banks became willing to do make even riskier loans, such as NO DOC loans, 0% down loans, etc. As the banks issued more and more of these loans, all the while feeling that they were insured against the risk, the banks began to borrow heavily against these securities and became heavily leveraged. Then, borrowers began to default on their loans and home prices began to decline. Those securities became dead weight on the banks balance sheets Mark to Market accounting required that assets on these banks balance sheets be valued at their actual market price, which greatly devalued them on their balance sheets. As these banks became increasingly leveraged against these &amp;#8220;toxic&amp;#8221; assets, banks began to not trust other banks ability to pay back their debts As a result, the crisis we are currently facing is fundamentally a credit crisis. Banks have stopped borrowing and lending to one another That means banks may not be able to loan money to businesses and individuals, thereby causing potentially a great cash-flow crisis on main street. If that happens, it won&amp;#8217;t be pretty. Credit is the grease that lubricates the skids of  day to day businesses and helps them manage their cash flow  I want to emphasize. 1) I am not an expert on any of this. I&amp;#8217;ve just been doing a lot of reading lately. (Maybe I shouldn&amp;#8217;t call this Palinesque since I actually do read stuff) 2) I am sure that there are inaccuracies and oversimplifications. That being said, I have 3 questions.  Using my list above, at which points are there obvious places where government interference or regulation may have contributed to this crisis? At which points did we obviously NEED greater government regulation and oversite? So who is more at fault, poor people with less than stellar credit, government regulation, government de-regulation, banks and lending agencies or Wall street with their MBSs, CDSs and other financial instruments?  
