Where the hell did all the nice people go? This is not chatfilter. This is a serious question about why there's so much negativity, how to cope with it and how I can find other nice people.   I am a decent human being, I think. If someone is driving erratically behind me, I get over so they can pass. I may curse at them for scaring me, but I always think &amp;quot;he's probably late for a meeting or something.&amp;quot; If I have a cartful of groceries at the market, and the person behind me has a tiny carry-basket with like 5 things in it, I let them go in line ahead of me. If the person in front of me is $1 short, I give them a dollar if I have it to spare.   And I don't do these things with Karma in mind. I do it because I hope that one day, if I'm feeling like crap and just have 2 things to buy, but the person in front if me has a whole damn basket, they'll let me go ahead of them. If I'm a dollar short buying groceries, I never think that someone should give it to me - it'd be nice if they did, but I don't count on it. In fact, I've NEVER been told I could go ahead of someone in line because my 2 items are far less than their 50 items. And I've never been given cash when I'm short by a dollar at the grocery store. There is a gross amount of negativity and it's starting to really affect me.  My point: I was supposed to go to the farmers market this morning with my best friend. After we made the plans last night but before this morning, my bank account went overdrawn because of AIG taking out 2 insurance payments instead of one. Apparently, they need money to pay for a hunting trip or something, I dunno. My check will be here at 1pm, so I'm only short for a couple of hours, which I can handle. But that means that I couldn't go at 10am. Now, had the positions been reversed, I would have told her that &amp;quot;we're only going to be spending $10 each anyway. Just pay me back whenever you can - if that's when you get your check in an hour or so, cool.&amp;quot; Because it's only $10, and she's my best friend. I don't really think about getting it back. But instead of saying something similar, she said &amp;quot;oh, okay well call me later if you're still up for it.&amp;quot;  My first thought was that maybe she just didn't think about offering up the cash. But then the more I thought about it, the more I realized that she's actually ALWAYS been this way. Even with a buffer - maybe I'm viewing myself as too generous, maybe she's not as stingy - it still shows me that I give more in our friendship than she's willing to. Even to a point of not offering to loan me $10 for a couple of hours or picking me up when I drop my car off at the auto shop or letting me borrow a crockpot - especially when these are things I've done for her without question.  Do any of you come up against this sort of thing, where you're the Givers and you find yourself only around the Takers? How do you cope with constantly being around negativity? And I guess my big question, how can I find other &amp;quot;nice&amp;quot; people? I'm not talking about people that'll randomly give me $20 (but hey, who doesn't turn that down?); more like, how do I find people that do the Do-Unto-Others crap? How do I find people that have a bit more common courtesy than the rest?
