Well, today I visited my local St. George bank to assess my real estate financing ability. With my outstanding personal loan, they're prepared to lend me $270,000. Without it, they're prepared to lend me $310,000. These numbers really don't mean much to me since if I were to buy a property, I'd be after less than $250,000 and preferably around the $220,000 mark. From what I can see, St. George has a good product, no deposit needed, competitive interest rates, easy redraw, flexible variable / fixed interest arrangements, savings account interest offset and the ability to take breaks from repayments for up to 12 months in case of job loss etc. So in light of the assessment, buying a place definitely looks achievable, even with no deposit whatsoever. $220,000 at the current interest rate of 8.69% over 25 years minus my sister's rent of $100 per week = $637.10 per fortnight. Doing my budget, things look pretty good. With exactly the same budget I have now, including plenty for going out, groceries, guitar, private health, child sponsorship, tithe, bills, internet, but swapping my rent for a mortgage minus Lydia's rent, I can still save $300 per fortnight, or almost $8000 per year. And if I tighten things up, remove nonessentials etc, I can save even more. And I have a promotion opening to apply for. The good thing about mortgages is that the payments remain roughly the same (depending on interest rate fluctuations), while salaries go up. Of course I probably don't want to be still paying off the same mortgage in 25 years. Haha if only because that would mean I'm probably still single! Anyway, I'm just going to have to be disciplined with big ticket items, and with sticking to my budget. Which is fine, necessity is a powerful motivator. The problem I have at the moment is that there are no nasty consequences of not being disciplined. Except for Gen. But she is too nice to be scary really. Good news is, even if Lydia gets sick of Canberra so I lose her rent, and my salary stays the same for ever, if I tighten things up I can still cover it ok. But what about starting out, eg furniture? $7000 should cover it ... thank you First Home Owner's Grant! That should be plenty more than enough to get some second hand beds, couches, tables, chairs, whitegoods ... other household stuff, saucepans etc. And what about stamp duty? $0 ... thank you First Home Plus! There's a few nice apartments and townhouses in Queanbeyan I have to take a look at, ranging from $190,000 to $230,000. I don't really want to look at anything much more expensive in case I fall in love and buy! And everything cheaper with 2 bedrooms is a bit dodgy. My sister and I have the following criteria:  2 bedrooms, both with built in robes Nice kitchen with room for my espresso machine and grinder Nice bathroom with a separate laundry Spacious lounge with a separate area for a dining table, large enough to have people over No renovator's delights! Also, a courtyard or backyard for a cat would be nice, as would a dishwasher and space for two cars. Those are all Lydia's extra criteria, I'm not too fussed. It got me thinking about future planning though. Say I buy a nice two bedroom apartment or townhouse now for my sister and I to live in. What happens if I get married and have kids etc? I guess sell, and use any capital gains to upsize. And if there's no capital gains? Well, God has promised to provide all my needs, and I believe him. Exciting stuff! Only a month ago I had basically resigned myself to not buying a place for many years. Lydia's coming and my discovery of the Queanbeyan property market might just change that! But I'd better pray more about it. A lot more.
