         Copyright Austin ClineForget that the "rescue" package gives unheard of powers to the Secretary of the Treasury......and that McCain's chief financial advisor is Phil Gramm, who sponsored the legislation that killed the Segal-Glass act and deregulated Wall Street and basically invited our current catastrophe.  Forget that Phil Gramm would most likely be John McCain's Secretary of the Treasury and have more power over our economy than anyone in history.Forget that Phil Gramm is still a paid lobbyist for a huge Swiss bank.Forget that Phil Gramm's wife Wendy was a board member of Enron.  Well, she became a board member after she retired from her position under Ronald Reagan heading the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Forget that hubby Phil sponsored the Commodity Futures Modernization Act in 2000 that basically allowed Enron to rape California....and eventually destroy itself.Forget that Wendy and her fellow board members had to pay $168 million in a settlement of a lawsuit for insider trading because of Enron's bullshit that her husband had legalized just for her.Forget that the Enron insurance company paid all but $13 million of the judgement.Forget that the insurance company was AIG.....who the Bush Administration just gave $80 million to last week......even though they sponsor Manchester United.Forget that the same "Enron loophole" in the Commodity Futures Modernization Act......allowed traders to artificially run up the price of oil to 150 bucks a barrel this summer.......and steal at least 500 bucks a month from my wallet in direct costs.....and almost ruin every American business that depends on moving shit around.This is what REALLY scares me.Remember Reverend Wright?  Obama's nutball pastor?Check out Sarah Palin's pastor.....Reverend Muthee......in a sermon at which she was present.All kudos to Jesus' General.....as usual.The second area whereby God wants us, wants to penetrate in our society is in the economic area. The Bible says that the wealth of the wicked is stored up for the righteous. It's high time that we have top Christian businessmen, businesswomen, bankers, you know, who are men and women of integrity running the economics of our nations. That's what we are waiting for. That's part and parcel of transformation. If you look at the -- you know -- if you look at the Israelites, that's how they work. And that's how they are, even today.Those damn Jews......all we gotta do is steal their playbook. Wendy, go long.  Phil, do a buttonhook on the left side, and I'll fake it to you.  Sarah, grab the playbook and run for the tunnel.          
