The first business day of each month is my day of heartache. It's when I take that huge stack of mail, open all the bills, and basically get rich and broke in the same day. Ok, maybe not rich... but dammit, broke maybe!!!I split everything into 4 piles:-Shred immediately. (stuff that I don't have to keep but it has an account number on it)-Bills to pay. This always hurts.-Things to file. Statements that I need to keep. Receipts, etc...-Review or read later.Well the last category has a huge stack today. And I realized something funny...A couple months ago, someone (name withheld), gave me a link to some kind of "Save the Earth" charity. I think I donated like $25 or $50. Well, since then, I'm the fucking posterboy for non-profits. I had at least 10 envelopes in front of me with the "Non-Profit" postage stamp on them. I'm officially on the "liberal guy that donates" list. It's rather funny. This was just in the last week or so:-The ACLU wants to know how I feel about torture, abortion, and all that. And maybe donate?-Co-Op America wants me to fight big corporations killing the environment-EarthJustice wants me to fight against the mining operations of JR Simplot in the Caribou-Targhee National Forest-Jane Gooddall wants me to save the Chimpanzee-Robert F Kennedy wants me to help save the Polar Bear by protesting oil drilling in the Arctic Circle. (How the hell am I going to fill up my gas guzzling SUV and my luxury car that takes premium and maybe even the Aston Martin I'm saving up for if there's no oil, Robert!!!)-The High Museum wants me to be a Patron. Ok, not necessarily non-profit and I'll prob do this anyway. I'm cultured yunno. I like paintings and stuff.-The Rainforest Action Network (is that a TV Station) wants me to protest Bank Of America and their funding of big coal companies that are also fucking up the environment.There's more, but that's the bulk. They all want either money ($25-$500) or my signature on a petition. I'm going to read them all, then go read the opposite views somewhere on Fox News, and make decisions. I'm probably not doling out any money tho. I'm not really loaded and I'm so focused (Man!) on paying off all my consumer debt by the end of the year. Which is the responsible AMERICAN thing to do!!In the midst of this fucktivity of an economy, if you aren't focusing on paying your bills, you're an idiot and half of the problem is YOU.I personally don't fully believe in the whole premise of the stock market. I do own stock, and it has lost a LOT of value this last month, but I'm not selling it this month. I'm not selling it next month. I'm selling it when I retire or the company has a major change. I buy stock according to how I feel about a company, NOT how some analyst rates them.Wow, I'm ranting. Anyway... If you are smart about your money, this last month is just a blip, and an opportunity to buy stocks for prices that are very attractive. That's how I look at it.
