Okay, so this mess in the financial sector has people fairly confused about just what the hell has been going on (myself included).  So, I thought that I might write out what happened, as best I can, both in an attempt to organize my own thoughts on the subject and to help anyone else who might be scratching their heads.  If you have anything to add to what I write, let me know.  I could easily have missed something.The Housing Crisis (As I Understand It)Back in the day, banks held mortgages.  So, if you wanted to buy a house, you walked into Community Bank A and asked for whatever a house cost back in the 1950s (like, $500?  I dunno).  Since they would be holding your mortgage for the full thirty years, it was in their interest to make certain that you would be able to pay that money back.  So they asked for employment history, credit information, assets, and a down payment.  These were all methods used by the bank to ensure that you would be good for the money that they would be providing.  If everything checked out, and the house was worth the $500, then they would provide you with the money, you would move in, and then pay them a fixed fee every month, which the bank could count on in its balance sheets (James will be paying us $20 next month).Then came the 1990s.  Some banks and investment firms noticed an interesting phenomenon.  When times were good, and markets performing well, people would put their money into investments.  When times were bad, people would put their money into savings accounts (which is to say, banks).  This worked fine for the people, but wasnt so good for the banks and investment firms, because they would only make money during their particular time.  So, some folks got the idea to combine banks and investment firms into one institution.  That way, the regular bank would make money in the bad times, the investment bank would make money in the good times, and the company as a whole would make money no matter what.However, this was illegal, because of the Glass-Steagal Act, which was passed in 1933 (during the height [depth?] of the Great Depression) and specifically prohibited investment banks from receiving deposits like a regular bank.  This was to prevent the conflicts of interest and fraud that had been discovered in institutions that had operated both as investment firms and as banks.  Incidentally, it also created the FDIC.So, before these institutions could merge, Glass-Steagal had to be repealed, at least in part.  This was accomplished in 1999 with the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which allowed such mergers to take place.  The Act was introduced by Republican Senator Phil Gramm, but was eventually approved by overwhelming majorities in both houses (meaning also, by both parties), 90-8 in the Senate, 362-57 in the House.  Now, people could do their saving and their investment at the same institution.  Financial institutions merged (Citibank + Travelers Group = Citigroup, for example).Enter the mortgage-backed security (MBS).  Think of this like a stock, but instead of it being a piece of a company, its a piece of a group of mortgages.  What happens is a bank gathers together a bunch of mortgages that it has made.  These represent an expected future asset  if persons A, B, and C all pay their $1000 mortgages on time, then we can expect $3000 of income that month.  So, banks would take hundreds of these mortgages, bundle them together, and then sell securities (the mortgage-backed securities) based on those assets.  Around the same time, especially after 9/11, the market was struggling and so the Fed Chairman, Alan Greenspan, continued to lower interest rates.  This had two important effects.  First, it was now less profitable for a bank to hold onto a standard mortgage.  Since interest rates were low, they werent receiving tremendous returns on their money.  Second, it also made the housing market rise, since low interest rates mean cheap loans, which makes it easier for people to buy homes.Though the MBS had been around since the 1930s, it was after the G-L-B Act that they really took off, because you had the same institution offering loans, which could then turn around and offer the MBS based on those loans through its investment branch.So, now we have this commodity, which is being sold to individuals, hedge funds, other investment groups, etc.  Remember that for all intents and purposes, an MBS is like a stock, so any investment fund manager might pick up a few, which meant that the major investment banks all had some exposure to these (both theirs and the ones packaged at other banks). However, this commodity isnt like gold, where in order to sell more you have to dig up more gold.  To get more mortgages, all the bank had to do was  make more mortgages.  Since the bank knew that they could turn around and sell these right away, the risk was being passed directly on to the MBS purchaser (i.e. the bank wasnt taking on the risk of a bad mortgage).  So, the banks did a fairly logical thing  they started to offer loans to more and more people, with fewer safeguards in place to reduce risk.  Safeguards work by denying people mortgages, which was the exact opposite of what the banks wanted to do.  No job, no income, no down payment  no problem!  Now, to be fair, the banks were not completely out of their minds.  They knew that, on some level, these were more risky mortgages, and more risky investments.  If the credit rating agencies (such as Standard &amp; Poors, Moodys, and Fitch) rated a particular batch as high risk, the bank needed something to balance out that risk.  So, what balances out risk in investment?Reward.High risk meant that the banks had to offer greater rewards for these MBSs.  They did this by using sub-prime (SPM) and adjustable rate mortgages (ARM).  Sub-prime just meant that the customer was getting a worse interest rate (prime is the normal interest rate, so a poorer rate would be sub-prime).  Adjustable rate mortgages would reset the interest rate at particular intervals (every year, every other year, etc.) so that when interests rates rose again (as the banks knew they must), the customer would pay larger sums for the same mortgage.  Interest-only mortgages (IOM) only required a person to pay the interest on their loan (meaning that none of the principal was being paid off), which allowed people to buy homes well outside their income levels.  However, think about the basics here.  The people who are least likely to be able to pay back a loan (as evidenced by their lack of normal indicators of economic health) are those who were paying the most for a given sum.  This cant be good.Home buyers were engaged in their own act of self-deception at about this time.  Since home prices around the country were skyrocketing, everybody seemed to think that a home could be turned around in a couple years time (often before the first interest rate reset on an ARM) for a huge profit.  And in all fairness, many were.  Remember, this is the time when flipping becomes a part of the cultural language.  Shows about people buying a house for $70,000 and selling it for $350,000 made others feel like they were losing out on the biggest prosperity boom of our generation.  People began buying houses based on their expected future income, with the idea that they could sell the house if things got too expensive.  Many IOMs had a grace period of 2 to 5 years, meaning that, at a low interest rate, you could literally purchase a million dollar home for less than $2000 / month.  Sure it wasnt sustainable, but everyone assumed that, in 2 years, that million dollar house would be worth much, much more, and could be sold for a huge profit.  So, things hum merrily along, until the Fed begins raising the interest rate again.  Between 2004 and 2006, the interest rate goes from 1% to 5%.  Several things begin to happen all at once.  First, some of these mortgages (like the sub-primes and ARMs) that were never very stable to begin with are being defaulted on.  Remember that this was the first most of us heard about any kind of housing crisis  the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage sector.  These people were unable to repay their loans, and so the defaults were difficult for their lenders to handle.  Remember also that the sub-prime lenders were, by and large, not the large banks, and so couldnt absorb great numbers of foreclosures.  These lenders were also creating MBSs from the sub-prime loans and selling them to the larger banks, which in turn repackaged them and sold them as part of their general offerings.  So, we now have large numbers of foreclosures sweeping across the country.  By itself, perhaps, this wouldnt have caused a crisis.  However, the large number of foreclosures meant that home prices were no longer rising, because any house that gets foreclosed on becomes an inexpensive alternative in that community (as the lenders generally try to unload them as quickly as possible), which drives down prices.  Higher interest rates, also, meant that people could no longer easily afford large sums of money, and were being more cautious in their home purchasing decisions.  Lower home prices had a devastating impact on everyone who had hoped to sell their house if things went bad  because suddenly that was no longer an option.  If you bought your house for $350,000, and you paid an interest-only loan (i.e., no reduction in principal), and your house is suddenly worth $275,000  you can see the problem.  If your mortgage suddenly increases because of the hike in interest rates, you may find yourself unable to pay the rent.  Some people simply walked away from the homes and allowed the default, rather than be on the hook for large sums of money.  This simply fed into the foreclosure cycle, driving down home values, and making it harder for others to sell their homes.  Back to Wall Street.  Suddenly, all of these mortgage-backed securities are questionable.  They ...
