you know things are bad when the republicans start to eat each other. even david brooks bites the hand that has fed him so well:"In 1933, Franklin Roosevelt inherited an economic crisis. He understood that his first job was to restore confidence, to give people a sense that somebody was in charge, that something was going to be done.This generation of political leaders is confronting a similar situation, and, so far, they have failed utterly and catastrophically to project any sense of authority, to give the world any reason to believe that this country is being governed.George W. Bush is completely out of juice, having squandered his influence with Republicans as well as Democrats. "you spend 8 years trying to rid this country of every change enacted by the New Deal and this is what you get.you spend 8 years deregulating businesses (name one industry that was gov't deregulated in the last 50 years that has been good for people and not the industry? ya can't, can you?), lowering taxes on corporations and the wealthy, and then you're surprised this wasn't a good idea?well, well, well.here's newt gingrich taking a swipe at his own party:"I was startled yesterday by a -- and this is what really pushed me over the edge decisively. There was a New York Times report that the New York Federal Reserve had a meeting about AIG, the gigantic insurance company, and the only private-sector firm in the room was the chairman of Goldman Sachs, which happened to have a $20 billion concern.I don't understand how the president -- I don't understand how the president can avoid firing the Secretary of the Treasury, when you have a former chairman of Goldman Sachs who wants to have unlimited ability to spend money, and you have the current chairman of Goldman Sachs the only private-sector person in a room, which, by the way, two weeks later, the U.S. government put up $85 billion to help AIG, in which Goldman Sachs has a $20 billion exposure. The average American looks at -- when the average American understands this, they are going to be so angry at this Congress if it passes a deal to give Secretary Paulson money."and then more even:The Bush administration has now provided three case studies in arrogance, isolation and destructiveness: Michael Brown during Hurricane Katrina, Ambassador Jerry Bremer in Baghdad and Secretary [Henry] Paulson at Treasury, Gingrich said. It is a tragic and very expensive legacy. No conservative and no Republican should doubt how much it has hurt our cause and our party.I'm starting to like the republicans more than the democrats! it's a world gone mad!!!!!then again, here's my wonderful democratic congressman, lloyd doggett on why he voted against the bill:"I thought this was very much like the Iraq War, like the Patriot Act, like several other things in Congress that had been fueled by fear and hinged on haste. This was really one idea about how to address this problem to the exclusion of all others."but meanwhile, just keep ducking and weaving, weaving and ducking.... hopefully we will survive this maelstrom.the return of the compassionate conservatives!never forget newty dumped his wife for an intern!
