As our stock market falls another day of news of no bipartisan resolution to a bailout.  It has me thinking more and more about our economic state and how quick we are to respond to things only when they become a sever crisis.  We claim ourselves to be the greatest country in the world, but statistically speaking, that couldn't be further from the truth.  We don't head warnings and we are a country of people who want everything given to us, without a single cent coming out of us.  This has caused us to be in the deepest debt we've ever had, close to 10 trillion dollars as of now and every day increasing more and more. So with all this turmoil happening our government decides best action to take to failed businesses is to fund them, without necessarily taking them over completely.  Saving corporations who managed people's money poorly and took advantage of optimistic potential home owners knowing full well that they were too big to let crumble, like so many small business today have.  Fortunately, mine excluded thus far.Im not a big fan of the bail out, even tho in a way I do see the reasoning behind it, and I do see how Americans are such a reactionary people that when things seem they are heading for tough times, they overreact and in turn make things worse.  The one thing I don't understand is why we are bailing people out, then rewarding them for careless management of a very important part of our economy, in a way, that type of negligence is borderline criminal.  So I propose an alternative to the bail out.  Im no economist but it seems if we are able to spend an initial 150 billion on current companies that have already gone under, and the remaining 550 billion on preventative measures to companies in risk, then I think this idea might be plausible.Instead of buying these businesses out and giving multi million dollar severance packages to careless CEOs, lets have the government hold the businesses, take them over but not buy them out... we will halt the running of negative business and in turn make the business not incur any debt.  So we hold these companies, funding them and running them as they always had been, all the mean while notifying the clients of the business that the company is in turmoil and will be closing its doors, we will hold the company for 6 months or so, allowing people to get their money out or as in the case of AIG to do research on other insurance opportunities.  Slowly but surely the clients will start leaving the company, and moving to other insurers which will in turn keep our economy stable, money coming out of one American corporation, into another.  After the 6 months lapse any current client of AIG will lose out, 6 months is plenty warning to find other sources to acquire your insurance.  The doors close at 6 months, the CEOs dont incur debt and they will not be rewarded, AIG will be let to fall and the government will no longer be responsible for staying committed to a mess created by another person.  Its not a bail out, its more of holding something stable until its safe to let it crumble.  Think of it as a teetering bus on the edge of a cliff, and somehow a group of people manage to grab a rope to it and keep it stable while everyone in the bus is safely out... as soon as everyone is out and accounted for, you let go of the rope, let the bus fall and crash, the owner of the bus will be upset he lost an investment, but the people are safe.Im not sure if this theory is actually doable but it sure seems alot better for the average American than what's being talked about in Congress right nowSanchez '08  :D
