An article was recently written in the Financial Times, stating that Alan Greenspan, the former Chairman of the Federal Reserve (USA's Equivalent of the Reserve Bank of Australia), is being made out as a scapegoat for the sub-prime mortgage market crisis. This is taken further when Greenspan declared himself blameless in his memoirs. These are the words of a man recruited as Chairman during the period of Ronald Reagan, kept by the two Bushes and Bill Clinton, starting off in one of the most materialistic times and ending with the biggest stock market crash since 1987.He was praised for how he lifted the USA out of the '87 Crash but he could have done more to make sure that this never happened again, by trying to regulate how business conduct themselves, to ensure that no consumers are taken advantage of and that business do not act in illegal or immoral manners (Who remembers Enron?). But his biggest&amp;nbsp;mistake was the failure to regulate the sub-prime mortgage market, to ensure that families do not enter into mortgages that they have no hope of paying. Even with the falling cost of property in the USA, families cannot afford to pay off these mortgages because they have extended themselves too far.It seemed as if anyone in the USA could gain a mortgage on their houses and a lot of these sub-prime mortgage companies were only too willing to give them a mortgage, thinking that if they kept these mortgages just out of reach, they would be able to make very healthy profits on the back of the continually-paid interest. But with the continual forclosures and bankruptcy of the consumers because of the ridiculous mortgages, these companies collapsed as their source of income could not be maintained. These companies rely on the big banks to pass on&amp;nbsp; the money to them in order to give these consumers the loans they want. As a result, this loss of money flowed all the way to the major banks and lending companies, Lehman Brothers and AIG to name a few.What I cannot understand is how these people did not see it coming. Alan Greenspan knew what was going on and encouraged it, thinking naively that everyone would eventually be able to own a house and continue the strong growth in housing and property. How can one man, virtually in control of the (then) largest economy in the world get it so wrong? He is one of the many people responsible for the fall of Lehman Brothers and the forcing of the US Government to fork out huge sums of money into AIG and the finance sector, to ensure that money is still pumping through. A US Government, that has a current account deficit of $9.34 Trillion. (side note: Since 1970, there have been 4 years where the US Government have realised a budget surplus: All 4 were in Clinton's Second Term) $9.34 Trillion! George W Bush has contributed at least $2.5 Trillion of this debt and that is only taking into account from 2005 on!Australia will be able to avoid any serious long-term damage, due to the strong regulation of credit within the nation. But there are still some mortgage problems. The greater concern would be the massive credit card debt that this nation has. The strong Budget Surplus from the last few years will ensure that we can spend our money to fix the problems and get on with business. Even with the Reserve Bank over-reacting with the raising of interest rates, enough business will be generated over Christmas that businesses can relax a bit and look forward to starting fresh for 2009. As for the United States, well I can't see them recovering any time soon...
