Transcript courtesy of Federal News ServiceREMARKS BY SENATOR BARACK OBAMA (D-IL), DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE, AT AN "AMERICAN JOBS TOUR" RALLY  GENOA PARK, COLUMBUS, OHIO 1:38 P.M. EDT, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2008    SEN. OBAMA: (In progress) -- all right, I will try to speak up. (Laughter.) I don't like to yell. (Cheers.) I will try to speak up. And if I can't hear you, then -- if you can't hear me, then you can holler some more. How's that? (Cheers.) All right.  Now, there are many causes of this crisis. Can you hear me?  AUDIENCE: Yeah!  AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes we can!  SEN. OBAMA: Can you hear me way in the back? (Cheers.)  AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes we can! (Laughs.)  SEN. OBAMA: All right.  Now, here's the only deal, though. I can't have you all hollerin' and then say I can't hear you. (Laughter.) Some of you, you can't hear me 'cause you're talking. (Laughter.) All right. But I'm going to speak up.  There are many causes of this crisis, and it's very important that we respond using all the tools that we have. So I'm encouraged that the Treasury is considering dramatic steps to provide more capital into our financial institutions so they have money to lend to businesses large and small. This is not a time for ideology; this is a time for common sense. This is a time for the politics of pragmatism. The test of an idea can't be whether it's liberal or conservative, the test should be whether it works for the American people and for American business. (Cheers, applause.) That's what we should be focused on in the days and week ahead.  I know these are difficult times. I know folks are worried. But I believe that we can steer ourselves out of this crisis because I believe in this country, because this is the United States of America. (Cheers.) This is a nation that's faced down war and depression, great challenges and great threats. And at each and every moment, we have risen to meet these challenges not as Democrats, not as Republicans, but as Americans -- (cheers, applause) -- with resolve and with courage.  We've all seen our share of hard times. The American story has never been about things that came easy; it's been about rising to the moment when things are hard, about rejecting panicked division in favor of purposeful unity, about seeing a mountaintop from the deepest valley. (Cheers.) That's why we remember some of the most famous words ever spoken by an American came from a president who took an office in a time of turmoil. He said, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself." (Cheers.)  Now is not the time for fear. Now is not the time for panic. Now is the time for resolve and steady leadership.  Columbus, we can meet this moment. We can come together to restore confidence in the American economy. We can renew that fundamental belief that in America, our destiny is not written for us, it is written by us. (Cheers.) That is who we are. That's the country we need to be right now. (Cheers, applause.)  AUDIENCE: (Chanting.) Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!  SEN. OBAMA: America -- America still has the most talented, most productive workers of any country on Earth. You know this, Ohio. We're the home to workers who built the largest middle class in history. We're home to workers who work two, three jobs; take the last bus home at night because they're willing to sacrifice for their children's future. We're home to innovation and technology, colleges and universities -- like Ohio State -- that are the envy of the world. (Cheers, applause.) Some of the biggest, brightest ideas in history have come from our small businesses, from somebody starting a new company in the back of a garage, from our research facilities. So it won't be easy, but there's no reason why we can't make this century another American century.  But I also know this: it will take a new direction. It will take new leadership in Washington. It will take a real change in the policies and politics of the last eight years. And that's why I'm running for president of the United States of America. (Cheers, applause.)  AUDIENCE: (Chanting.) Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama!  SEN. OBAMA: We -- we can't keep on doing the same on thing.  You know, even as we face the most serious economic crisis of our time, even as you're worried about keeping your jobs or paying your bills or staying in your home, my opponent's campaign announced last week that they plan to -- I'm quoting them now -- "turn the page" on the discussion of our economy -- (boos) -- so they can spend the final weeks of this election attacking me instead. (Boos.) Senator McCain's campaign actually said, and I quote, "if we keep talking about the economic crisis, we are going to lose." (Cheers.) So in the last couple of days, we've seen a barrage of nasty insinuations and attacks. I'm sure we're see a lot more of that over the next 25 days. We know what's coming. We know what they're going to do.  But here's the thing, Ohio. They can try to turn the page on talking about the economy. They can try to deny the record of the last eight years. They can run misleading ads. They can pursue the politics of anything goes. But it's not going to work, not this time. The American people don't intend to be hoodwinked this time. (Cheers, applause.) I think folks are looking for something different. (Cheers, applause.) You know, it's easy to rile up a crowd by stoking anger and division, but that's not what we need right now in the United States. The times are too serious. The challenges are too great.  We need leadership that brings the American people together. (Cheers.) The American people aren't looking for someone who can divide this country, they're looking for somebody to lead it. (Cheers, applause.)  AUDIENCE: Obama! Obama! Obama! Obama!  SEN. OBAMA: We are in a serious crisis, and now more than ever it is time to put country ahead of politics. Now more than ever, it's time to bring change to Washington so it works for the people of this country that we love so much.  Now, I know John McCain's worried about his campaign, but that's not what I'm worrying about. I'm thinking about Americans losing their jobs and their homes and their life savings. I'm worried about folks who started off with a 401(k) and now they've got a 101(k). (Laughter.) We can't afford four more years of the same economic theories that -- that says we should give more and more to those with the most -- the billionaires and the millionaires, the CEOs -- (boos) -- and the executives, and that somehow prosperity trickles down on everybody else. We can't afford four more years of stripping away regulations so that no one in Washington is watching -- watching anybody on Wall Street.  We've seen where that leads us and we are not going back. It is time to move forward. It is time to take a new road with a new driver. (Cheers, applause.)  It is time to put the last eight years of failed economic policies behind us, policies that put Wall Street ahead of Main Street and ended up hurting both. We need policies, Columbus, that grow our economy from the bottom up, so that every American everywhere has the chance to get ahead: not just corporate CEOs, but their secretaries, too -- (cheers) -- not just the factory owner, but the men and work -- and women who are working on the factory floor. (Cheers.) If we have learned anything from this economic crisis, it's that we're all connected. We're all in this together. We will rise or fall as one nation, as one people, all of us -- black, white, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, young, old, rich, poor, labor, management, north, south, east, west, all of us working together. (Cheers, applause.)  Now, my opponent has a fundamentally different view. Recently, he -- he proposed a plan that would hand over $300 billion to underwrite the kind of greed and irresponsibility on Wall Street that got us into this mess. His intention, he says, is to help homeowners. Well, want homeowners to get help, but the way he set this up, it punishes taxpayers, it rewards banks, and it won't solve our housing crisis.  Now, at first, he said this spending would come from the rescue package that's already passed, but the rescue package included taxpayer protections that prevent exactly the kind of scheme that Senator McCain is putting forward. We're not going to solve the immediate crisis by going back and changing the law we passed last week to push forward a plan that would take months to implement.  So I have a fundamentally different view from Senator McCain. Yes, we need to help innocent homebuyers. That's why I insisted a long time ago that we have a rescue package that gives Treasury the authority to buy and rework mortgages, so that if you're at -- at risk of losing your home but you're willing to keep on making payments, then the banks give up a little bit and you've got to give up a little bit, but you can stay in your house. That makes sense. (Cheers.) We've given Treasury a broad menu of options that should be pursued, but we should not put taxpayer money at -- at unnecessary risk. Taxpayers should not have all the downside without any of the upside. That's a principle I've fought for, it's a principle that I will maintain, it's a principle that I will stand up for as president of the United States of America. (Cheers, applause.) That's the choice in this election.  Now, I repeat, we need to do more to help innocent homebuyers. That's why I've worked on a serious proposals over the past two years to do just that. But we have to do it in a responsible way. That means making sure that we're not overpaying for these mortgages, letting the banks off the hook, rewarding the very lenders whose recklessness helped cause this crisis. It means giving taxpayers a share of the benefits when the housing market recovers. It means cracking down on predatory lenders by treating mortgage fraud like the crime that ...
