       Our government is in the process of trying to hammer out a bailout rescue plan for financial institutions that made poor and/or criminal decisions that have resulted in thousands of individuals losing their homes, retirement savings, etc.  Corporate CEO's and executives have made millions while driving this country to the brink of financial ruin and now the tax payers are expected to step up and bail them out??  Corporations that were forever screaming "No government interference" are now screaming "Save us!" So where is the help for the individuals who lost their homes because banks made the decision to fund a loan based on whole cloth? Where are those corporate CEO's when we're having trouble paying our mortgage, or the orthodontist, or the grocery bill, or the gas bill, or the credit card bill?  Will AIG pay my homeowners insurance if I experience a particularly tight month?  Will the banks pay off my credit card bills for me if I find myself behind the 8 ball? Not bloody likely, and yet this is basically what we're being asked to do.  What about my 401K that, though I'm afraid to look, is likely dropping faster than Brittney Spears' panties? Much like Fidelity Investments who shoulder the burden of managing my 401K, we elect politicians to manage the affairs and well-being of our country.  Given the current state of affairs and the way things are being run, we should be outraged. Streets should resemble the last years of the 1960's, teeming with protestors. There should be sit-ins at universities and marches on Washington.   But here's the problem. Most of us have become complacent, and many of us are too busy dealing with the day to day business of getting by; work, grocery shopping, helping kids with homework, worrying about that next credit card bill and wondering if we'll ever be ahead of the game. I can't afford to join in a protest, and yet one could argue that I can't afford to sit idly by.   So what's the answer; anarchy, mass revolt, joining a commune? Anybody got any ideas?     
