SYDNEY, Aug 12 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar was subdued near six-and-a-half month lows against a resurgent U.S. dollar on Tuesday, and as commodities extended losses amid escalating worries about global economic growth.    * Commodities continued their slide, with the CRB commodities index  falling 0.59 percent on Monday, having shed over 3 percent in the previous session, as demand for industrial metals and oil took a knock. Australia is a big exporter of commodities and has been riding high on its booming terms of trade position.    * The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cut its forecast for domestic economic growth in the coming year but raised its short-term inflation outlook in its quarterly statement on monetary policy on Monday.    * As a result, futures markets trimmed chances of an aggressive rate cut in September , having priced in nearly a 50 basis point cut beforehand. Futures are still fully factoring in chances of a 25 basis point cut.    * By 9:15 a.m. the Aussie dollar  was at $0.8820/23 against the U.S. dollar, down from $0.8864/69 late here on Monday and off a low of $0.8789 which was its weakest since Jan. 28.    * On the other hand, the U.S. dollar rallied to a near six-month high against the euro, boosted by a drop in crude oil prices and growing worries the slowdown in the United States was spilling over to other major economies.    * The Aussie has shed 12 percent since striking a 25-year high of $0.9851 in mid-July, with the fall gathering pace last week after dovish statements from the RBA saw markets price in chances of a steep cut as early as next month.    * Those expectations have seen yield spreads between two-year U.S. and Australian government bonds shrink to their lowest this year, putting more downward pressure on the Aussie.    * The Aussie traded near three-month lows against the yen, at 97.18 yen , down from 97.56 yen late here on Monday as prospects for lower domestic rates diminished some of the Aussie&amp;#039;s high-yield allure.    * Australian bonds were firmer, with the shorter end in particular buoyed by chances of a rate cut in the near term.    * The three-year bond futures  were up 0.03 points to 94.205, while the 10-year bond contract  nudged up 0.01 points to 94.12.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
