SYDNEY, Aug 1 (Reuters) - Australian short-term bill futures boasted their biggest daily jump in five years on Friday while the bond yield curve steepened on intense speculation that domestic interest rates could be cut sooner than expected.    The December bill contract  surged by 0.200 points, the biggest gain since mid-2003, while September futures  climbed 0.130 points.    The rally followed an unsourced report from Daily Telegraph columnist Terry McCrann that the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) would use its monthly policy meeting next Tuesday to consider a cut in rates, currently at a 12-year high of 7.25 percent.    McCrann said a cut as soon as next week was unlikely but the central bank would use its post-meeting statement to set out the case for lower interest rates, and then ease in September.    Analysts were far from convinced of the report&amp;#039;s veracity, but the market had already been leaning toward an easing following a run of weak economic indicators.    Figures out Thursday, showed retail sales slumped in June, posting the biggest fall in six years, while credit growth slowed to levels not seen in a decade.    After the report was published, markets moved to price in nearly 75 basis points of rate cuts by the RBA in the next 12 months . As recently as June they had been pricing in at least one more hike.    Indeed, some felt the market had not gone far enough.    &amp;#039;Bills have rallied to price in rate cuts this year, but we still think that they are underpricing the extent of rate cuts,&amp;#039; said Peter Jolly, head of research at National Australia Bank.    &amp;#039;We think there is room for 100-125 basis points rate cuts as data has been surprisingly weak, and that leaves reasonable space for the rally to continue,&amp;#039; he said.    The fall in bond yields saw the spreads between two-year U.S. and Australian government bonds shrink to their lowest level this year, diminishing some of the Aussie dollar&amp;#039;s high yield appeal.    As a result, the Aussie  fell to $0.9365 against the U.S. dollar --its lowest since June 13.    CURVE STEEPENING    The surge in the short end helped the bond yield curve to turn steeper, after being inverse for months.    The gap between the three-year and 10-year Australian government bond yields was a positive 0.045 points, having ended last week at minus 0.050 points.    In an inverse curve, yields at the shorter end are higher than the longer end as investors factor in chances of tight monetary policy in the near term. Those risk have now been discounted as the Australian economy grapples with a slowdown and mounting credit losses at local commercial banks.    &amp;#039;More weakness in the Aussie dollar together with a further steepening in the yield curve appears likely in the short term,&amp;#039; said Besa Deda, senior currency strategist at St George.    She said the next move by the RBA looks like a cut, but remained uncertain about the timing.    One impediment to an early cut was that annual core inflation was up at a 17-year high of 4.4 percent, well above the RBA&amp;#039;s target band of 2 to 3 percent.    &amp;#039;But with growth so obviously slowing, their inflation problem will ease in coming months,&amp;#039; said Matthew Johnson, senior economist at ICAP.    &amp;#039;I think the RBA can at least make some adjustment for the credit crunch. How far they can cut depends on what the bank knows about quantity constraints on lending.&amp;#039;    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by Wayne Cole)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
