SYDNEY, Aug 26 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar extended losses to seven-month lows against the U.S. currency on Tuesday as fresh financial sector woes prompted selling of riskier assets and high-yielding currencies.    The failure of the Columbian Bank and Trust in Kansas, the ninth U.S. bank to fail this year, and the Danish central bank&amp;#039;s bail out of the ailing Roskilde Bank reminded investors that the global credit crunch is still taking its toll.    Those jitters pulled stock markets sharply lower and investors unwound risky carry trades, where they borrow in the cheap Japanese yen to buy higher-yielding currencies.    &amp;#039;Investors are taking risk off the table,&amp;#039; said Jonathan Cavenagh, currency strategist at Westpac. &amp;#039;Stocks are lower and in an environment of risk aversion, the Aussie is likely to head lower.&amp;#039;    By 11:35 a.m. (0135 GMT), the Aussie dollar  was at $0.8593/95 against the U.S. dollar, down from $0.8640/45 late here on Monday. It fell as low as $0.8564, its lowest since Jan. 22.    The Australian currency has lost 15 percent since it striking a 25-year high of $0.9851 last month.    It also dropped against the yen , falling to as low as 93.51 yen  from 95.10 yen late here on Monday and not far from a four-month low of 93.09 yen struck two weeks earlier.    The Japanese currency gained against most major currencies in a widespread evacuation of carry trades.    The Aussie&amp;#039;s sharp retreat has also been inspired by growing expectations for interest rate cuts from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) as decade-high borrowing costs and soaring petrol prices lead to a sharp slowdown in demand.    Financial markets  are pricing in a better-than-even chance of an aggressive 50 basis point cut from the RBA at its September policy board meeting.    Just a couple of months earlier the central bank still had a tightening bias with core annual inflation running at a 17-year high.    &amp;#039;The speed of the change to the RBA outlook, weaker activity data and a darker outlook for global growth adds to the case for a test of $0.8500 for the Aussie and a possible move lower further out,&amp;#039; said Tony Morriss, senior currency strategist at ANZ.    Expectations of a global economic slowdown have gained ground following weak output data from the euro zone and Britain. Those concerns have led investors to unwind the once highly popular short U.S. dollar-long commodities trade.    Australia is a big exporter of commodities and a global downturn is likely to hurt demand for natural resources.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    lw    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
