TOKYO, Aug 27 (Reuters) - The dollar dipped against the euro on Wednesday, taking a breather after hitting a six-month high the previous day on data showing a deterioration in German business morale. The dollar fell broadly, slipping 0.3 percent against a trade-weighted basket of major currencies, as investors scaled back positions.    &amp;#039;Fund operators are trimming their long dollar positions. The moves are not being caused by any particular factors,&amp;#039; said Shuichi Kanehira, a senior forex trader at Mizuho Corporate Bank.    The euro rose around 0.3 percent from late U.S. trading on Tuesday to $1.4698, pulling away from a six-month low of $1.4570 struck on trading platform EBS on Tuesday.    Sterling edged up 0.3 percent to $1.8433, having trimmed some of its losses after slumping to a two-year trough of $1.8330 on Tuesday.    The dollar fell 0.3 percent against the yen to 109.29 yen , dragged down by selling by Japanese exporters. Such commercial flows tend to pick up towards the month-end.    The euro had slid on Tuesday after data showed German business morale had fallen to a three-year low. Traders cited as a factor behind its rise buying by trend-following Commodity Trading Advisers or CTA funds, also known as managed futures firms.    The data was the latest sign that weakness in the U.S. economy had spilled over into other major economies, and underscored market expectations for the European Central Bank to eventually lower interest rates.    DOLLAR SEEN SUPPORTED    The euro, sterling and high-yielding currencies such as the Australian dollar have slid sharply since late July due to mounting signs that economic weakness has spread beyond the United States.    Given this backdrop the dollar was likely to remain supported by a process of elimination, traders said, despite lingering worries about U.S. financial institutions&amp;#039; losses from the turmoil in credit markets. &amp;#039;There are various negative factors against currencies other than the dollar, and we are not in a risk-taking environment,&amp;#039; said Kanehira at Mizuho Corporate Bank.    Investors are bracing for central banks in the euro zone, Britain, Australia and New Zealand to lower interest rates, either this year or sometime next year.    By contrast, the Federal Reserve is seen likely to raise U.S. interest rates by around 50 basis points from the current 2.0 percent by next August.    &amp;#039;Whether it&amp;#039;s cable, the euro, Aussie or kiwi, there is little sign yet that they have bottomed out,&amp;#039; said a trader for a major Japanese trading house.    Higher-yielding currencies likely have more room to fall, especially against the yen, he said.    The Australian dollar rose 0.5 percent to $0.8579, having edged up from an 11-month low of $0.8493 hit on Tuesday.    Interest rate futures are pricing in a 25 basis point rate cut by the Reserve Bank of Australia early next month to cushion the economy.    (Editing by Michael Watson)    .    nt    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
