       just a bit of os bounce imo....japan had horrible economic news out this am...we know the eu is headed down....one spike ingerman numbers aren&amp;#039;t going to turn that story around anytime soon...  A Bleak Outlook From the Bank of Japan     By REUTERS Published: August 19, 2008  TOKYO  The Bank of Japan delivered its bleakest assessment of the economy since the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and 1998 in a sign that a global slump sparked by the tight credit market in the United States might be spreading too quickly for Japan to avert recession.  Slowing global growth was hurting Japanese exports, the American economy will remain sluggish this year and a decline in commodity prices from Julys record peaks may not mean the end of an era of surging raw material costs, the governor of the Bank of Japan, Masaaki Shirakawa, said.  The bank left interest rates unchanged at 0.5 percent in a unanimous decision on Tuesday. Mr. Shirakawa said its pessimistic assessment of the economy did not shake its belief in a recovery and signaled that the bank would keep its neutral policy stance.  The statement announcing the rate decision described the Japanese economy as sluggish  a term the bank last used in its assessment in May 1998, when capital was fleeing Asia after an asset-price bubble collapsed the previous year.  While we did say that economic growth is sluggish, the possibility of Japans economy worsening sharply is slim, Mr. Shirakawa told a news conference.  The scale of the worldwide slump triggered by the collapse of the mortgage market in the United States is driving trading in global foreign exchange markets. The dollar has rallied to its highest in seven months against an index of major currencies on bets that Europe and Asia will suffer more than investors had previously expected.  Were not surprised with the B.O.J.s wording that economic growth was sluggish, the chief economist at Barclays Capital, Kyohei Morita, said.  What was more interesting was that it acknowledged that export growth was slowing. The bank has been saying all along that exports were in an upward trend, but now it has changed that view.  Some investors sold Japanese government bonds to lock in profits on the view that the banks downgrade did not go far enough to signal the chance of a rate cut.   The B.O.J. showed in todays statement that the latest lowering of its economic assessment will not directly lead to a rate cut, the chief market economist at Mizuho Securities, Yasunari Ueno, said.  The worlds second-largest economy shrank in the second quarter as crumbling United States and European export markets hit factories, and consumers tightened belts to cope with high food and fuel costs.   Exports to Asian emerging markets weakened in June from a year earlier after sustaining growth in the face of a slump in United States and European demand.  While a shrinking economy is its main focus, the Bank of Japan is on guard against rising prices.  Annual core consumer inflation is around 2 percent and is expected to accelerate in coming months before slowing, the BOJ said in the statement.  Mr. Shirakawa raised a laugh at the news conference when he mistakenly said the bank had decided to keep rates at 0.75 percent, instead of 0.50 percent.  Some media seized on the slip-up to speculate that a rate hike may be on the cards, but Mr. Shirakawa warned them not to.  It absolutely does not suggest anything about my deep psyche, he said.  
