SYDNEY, Aug 8 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar was subdued near fresh four-month lows against a buoyant U.S. currency on Friday, weighed down by growing expectations of steep interest rate cuts in coming months.    * Near term bill futures  surged and financial markets  are almost fully pricing in a 50 basis points rate cut in September, the first reduction by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) in seven years.    * A strong jobs report for July provided the Aussie some support on Thursday, but the central bank considers employment data a lagging indicator in a fast-slowing economy, so expectations of deep rate cuts were broadly unchanged.    * The Aussie dollar  was at $0.9068/71, down from $0.9110/14 late here on Thursday and marginally off a four-month low of $0.9050 struck earlier in the session.    * The U.S. dollar extended gains after a surprise jump in U.S. June home sales. The home sales data offset a bleak U.S. jobless claims report.    * The U.S. dollar was also helped by comments from European Central Bank President Jean-Cluade Trichet who said he expects growth in the euro zone to weaken substantially this year, even though he sees inflation remaining above the ECB&amp;#039;s target [ID:nL7650401].    * The Aussie traded near recent three-month lows against the yen , hurt by a renewed bout of risk aversion. Stocks on Wall Street fell after American International Group  suffered huge losses, fuelling fears of a further fallout from the credit crisis.    * Australian bonds were firmer on safe-haven inflows and expectations of domestic rate cuts. Yield spreads between two-year U.S. and Australian government bonds were at 346 basis points, not far from their lowest levels this year.    * Three-year bond futures  were up 0.06 points to 94.21, while the 10-year bond contract  added 0.07 points to 94.120.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by Wayne Cole)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
