  Visit msnbc.com for Breaking News, World News, and News about the EconomyTo echo the words of Arianna Huffington, President Bush, during his farewell speech last night, was delusional from the beginning to the end. So, as he was bidding us his "fondest" farewell on television, he was sticking us with a $20 billion, secret middle-of-the-night bailout for Bank of America and an additional government backstop of $118 billion for its assets &#8212; all on top of cutting a deal with Barack Obama to give away the second $350 billion of the TARP Big Business bailout. That's a helluva goodbye. At least Obama has committed, in writing, to using some of the funds to address the current mortgage foreclosure crisis.President Bush is one of the most unpopular presidents in America's history, and certainly since I started voting in this country. He was classic Bush, unbowed as he defended his tumultuous two terms in a farewell address to the nation. He claimed a series of successes at home and aboard. Reaching back to the Sept. 11 attacks, when the public rallied behind him, Bush declared the United States will "never tire, never falter and never fail." Wait, where did the victims of Hurricane Katrina factor into his successes? It was a glaring failure and is still an albatross around the necks of the residents from Louisiana and the gulf coast.He is leaving office with the highest disapproval rating since Richard Nixon, Bush said, "You may not agree with some tough decisions I have made, but I hope you can agree that I was willing to make the tough decisions." Really, President Bush, you hope we can see that you were willing to make these tough decisions? They did not benefit this country one bit. We are mired in an economic crisis of untold proportions and an unclear duration.It is rather tragic, that he had to spend his farewell address to the nation, which I might add many people did not even bother to watch, defending his position. A clear sign that he is worried about his legacy and how he will be portrayed in the history books. Bush's eight-year term is indelibly marked by terrorism, two wars and recessions. He spoke from the East Room of the White House with just 112 hours left in office. I seriously doubt his farewell speech will do much to change the minds of Americans. President Bush spoke in glowing terms about our accomplishments in Iraq, as though we are best friends. But in reality, Iran is more likely the best friend of Iraq than America, which is reviled in parts of the Middle East. Afghanistan is a death trap, where no-one in their right mind would dare venture out without ample protection. News flash-- the Taliban is running around the country once again! What would Hamid Karzai do if his American bodyguards left? He'd be assassinated or would have to leave the country himself. President Bush claimed that America's "air, water, and lands are measurably cleaner." Really President Bush? Who is doing the measuring? I suppose the same eco-unfriendly companies to which he handed his environmental policies. We entered the Spin-Zone with President Bush's farewell speech.This will be his final public appearance until he greets President-elect Barack Obama on Inauguration Day at the White House's North Portico. Thank God. Bush called the inauguration of Obama, the first black president, a "moment of hope and pride" for America. "Standing on the steps of the Capitol will be a man whose story reflects the enduring promise of our land," he said. That much I agree with him on. Sorry President Bush, I don't think that history will be as kind to you as you have been to us. I am being sarcastic of course. January 20th can't come fast enough for me. The real shame is that his father was a better president in his one term than he was in eight years. Thanks President Bush, for sticking it us one last time before you really say goodbye.  Sphere: Related Content  ...
