Filed under: Economic data, Politics, HousingLike all good marriages, the union of Barack Obama and the American people will start tomorrow with the best of intentions. The problem is that it won't last, particularly when it comes to the economy.The president-elect already is at odds with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi over whether to repeal the Bush tax cuts before they expire in 2010, according to the Wall Street Journal. The economic stimulus package is expected to top $850 billion as part of Obama's pledge to create jobs and reducing taxes. Meanwhile, the housing market continues to stink and the stock market continues to be dreadful. Improving the economy is going to be a long, painful process. Think turning around a super-tanker and you get the idea. Good news is going to be hard to come by over the next 12 months. Bad news will be plentiful. Here are some predictions of the troubles that lie ahead for the economy no matter despite Obama's best intentions.      Corporate bankruptcies -- Experts are predicting one of the biggest waves of corporate bankruptcies and restructurings in years. Already, Circuit City Stores Inc. (OTC: CCTYQ) has bitten the dust and the year is just getting started. Loads of retailers who are already operating on the razor's edge of profitability may be pushed over the edge. I doubt that enough credit will be unlocked by government fiat to address this problem.      Trade deficit -- The trade deficit is a good news bad news situation. The good news is that it fell in November by the biggest amount in 12 years. Unfortunately, the reason why it fell is that the economy plunged as consumer spending fell. Any change in the balance of trade is unlikely going to happen this year.     Bank nationalization -- In light of the financial lifeline given to Bank of America Corp. (NYSE: BAC), Reuters and other media outlets recently asked whether the U.S. was set to nationalize the banking sector. The allure of such a move is tempting, particularly considering what would happen if another large money-center bank went Chapter 11. No one would provide it debtor-in-possession financing, leaving the government as the lender of last resort. Remember what happened when Lehman Brothers was allowed to fail? The results were disastrous     Unemployment -- Economic advisor Larry Summers predicted yesterday that Obama would keep unemployment under 10%. Good luck with that.  I will not be shocked if this prediction comes true. One beneficiary of the record joblessness is the military, according the New York Times.     Housing -- The housing market will continue to suck wind for the rest of the year. Housing starts were at a record low in December.  Housing prices will continue to fall because builders overbuilt, lenders doled out money to uncreditworthy borrowers and people used their homes as an ATM.  If Obama can make 10% progress on any of these problems, his first year will be a rousing success. Read   Permalink   Email this   Linking Blogs   Comments                         
