              Well, the headache is finally at bay...Woke up okay a little over an hour ago, and promptly started haulin' wash down to finish...Got the last load o' towels drying as we speak...yaaaay! EVERYthing is washed now, laundry-wise--sheets and all, and I'm glad it's done! After the dryer's done, I can run the dishwasher, and then that'll be done. If there were one nearby, I'd treat myself to a yummy DQ burger. But there's not, so I have to content myself with MacFood--the only other burger place nearby is Carl's Jr., and they suck. If I wanna spit little hard bits of bone (or whatEVER that nasty little white chunk of crap IS that I nearly chip a tooth on everytime I try one of their burgers...), it's NOT gonna come from a goddamned six-fucking-dollar burger! Hell, MacFood has NO bones--not even in their fake-assed "rib" sandwich! lol...I'm not keen on it, nutritionally, but while I'm runnin' the big appliances I have to watch what else I turn on in the kitchen, or else I'll flip a breaker...There used to be a cool DQ over on 122nd and San Rafael back in th' day, but it's gone now...waaaah. But I deserve a treat for getting all this housework done (place still looks like a paper-bomb went off), and I just don't feel like cookin'... I was awakened today by some idiot telemarketer/scammer/spammer calling my home phone. The caller ID only lists the caller as "RECYCLE", and leaves a phone number (1-231-732-2725), but never a message, and should I just happen to answer before it cuts off ringin', it hangs up. Obviously an illegal phone bot. I tried calling the number back, and got a recording telling me to leave a message. I did, informing them that I'm on BOTH National Do Not Call lists (home/cell numbers), and the next contact they had from me would be the FTC. That was two weeks ago, and I've had three calls from them SINCE I left it. Just now, I finished filling out a complaint with the FTC, and I would suggest that if anyone knows anybody else that has gotten these calls, they would do the same. They often call before 9am and after 5pm,and it's some moron in Michigan, from what I could discern without paying for a complete report, from a couple of online sites (I Googoled the number and got two "consumer" sites--they give you very general info, and then want you to pay for a "complete" report. I'm not spending a dime on these fuckwads...). The FTC site is: www.ftc.gov, and it'll lead you through a series of screens to fill out the info necessary to start an investigation. These idiots are calling folks all over the country, and so far they haven't used my home number for anything--I'm watchin' my phone bill though, and the INSTANT anything weirdish happens, they are SO sued...It's fuckin' with my health; my sleep-disorder is scattered enough without some idiot making me leap from bed when I finally DO get tired enough to sleep, and disrupting me all over again when it hangs up on me...Grr grr GRR... Got a letter from the company that did my re-fi...All my joy over leaving Wells Fargo has evaporated---they resold it to them!! AARGH! Today, I got a cheque fromWF for the remainder of my escrow account from the last mortgage, and I dunno if I should cash it, or give it back to 'em for the new loan...These idiots couldn't add their way out of a wet paper bag...Along with the cheque, came a statement, and a request to automatically debit the payment from my checking account...NOT FUCKING HARDLY. Not after what they did to me last year--oh HELL no!! They'll be lucky if I don't truck over thirteen hundred bucks' worth of PENNIES every month...I'll have to call my broker and see if this cheque belongs to me, or if I should have WF re-deposit it into escrow. I don't want any surprizes from WF ever again. Wish I had some control over who owns my mortgage...I can do a better background check than ANY bank...And considering just about every bank's track-record lately, that's probably not sayin' much...Monday, I get to call Citibank and ask them where THEY found a delinquency in my credit reports--I have copies of all three now, and NONE list ANY delinquencies anywhere. This makes their decision to cancel my account based on "delinquencies/number of delinquent accounts" clearly inaccurate and thereby discriminatory/illegal. Should be fun to listen to 'em squirm while I go over all three reports and demand the REAL reason for the cancellation...They can only get away with this blanket-denial crap if we, as consumers, LET THEM. Only by confronting them as they try this sort of disruptive abuse, can we make them realize it's not going to be cost-effective to fight a class-action suit...I'll probably never USE the damned card again, but they cannot get away with this sort of mismanagement. I won't let 'em...grr! lol. Well, I'm gonna go grab some supper, and then chill a bit before I get back to work; still got a ton of paper in the living room to deal with, but it's getting there...I swear, sometimes I feel as though I'm tryin' to melt an iceberg with a kitchen match...Oh well...'later.          
