     I've just read a sentence that should be forever stricken from the English language  "...industry players argue the risk to taxpayers is remote."  Before I add any context, just take a moment and think about that one for a moment. It's OK, I'll wait.Given economic current events, does anyone find that statement giggle-inducing? Having just finished reading The Black Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable, the use of the word 'remote'--as if it actually means anything quantifiable and assuring--is making my left eyebrow twitch. But wait, it gets better. The industry these 'industry-insiders' hail from?Mortgage insurers.American mortgage insurers.I'm not going to name names, but one of them has the initials AIG.  U.S.-based mortgage insurance companies are pressing the federal government to fully guarantee their home insurance policies in the pending federal budget to expand their market and possibly help resuscitate Canada's struggling real-estate market. According to people familiar with the lobbying campaign, two leading mortgage insurers, Genworth Financial and American International Group, are fighting to raise existing government guarantees of private mortgage insurance to 100 per cent from the 90-per-cent level that has been in existence since the late 1980s. Such a move would make the federal government ultimately liable for all of the hundreds of billions of dollars in insured mortgage debt. Having blown their brains out at home, and presumably turned off American tax payers in the process, these insurers are now asking Canadian tax payers to step up to the plate for the sake of their bottom lines. Of course all this is in addition to the fact that, to quote atheologian/financial professional Robert (who is himself paraphrasing his own personal guru, Kramer) "Mortgage insurance is the biggest scam perpetrated on the Canadian people since one-hour Martinizing."I hope Harper sends these guys packing... or at the very least tells them to Get On Your Boots and hit the road. Rant over. Back to our regular scheduled thoughts on faith, U2, Africa, and anything else that strikes me as important.(BTW - You can read the article here.)    
