  New numbers show unemployment hitting 7.2 percent, a 15-year high, and it's still going up, framing the entire political conversation for the moment.  Obama's transcendency finally touches the earthbound muck of politics, as various Dems in Congress begin to pick apart his stimulus package -- too big, too small, too many tax breaks that don't really stimulate -- in the wake of his big speech unveiling it yesterday.  Meanwhile, Treasury nominee Geithner is retooling the plan for the second $350 billion of the original $700 billion bailout, planning to broaden it from Wall Street to provide "aid to municipalities, small businesses, homeowners and other consumers." Of course, none of that is what was actually voted for.......  More fodder for the GOP on Eric Holder, as the LATimes reports that Obama's AG nominee "pushed some of his subordinates at the Clinton Justice Department to drop their opposition to a controversial 1999 grant of clemency to 16 members of two violent Puerto Rican nationalist organizations."  More change: Obama appoints three Clinton retreads to top Defense posts.  LIPA's Kevin Law, who Steve Israel has reportedly been pushing for a big Obama energy job, has been hiding energy contracts that show much higher costs than expected for new power projects, according to a series of disclosures by Newsday's Mark Harrington here and here and here.  Chuck Schumer and two other Senators got Citibank to sign off on proposed legislation that would give bankruptcy judges the power to alter mortgages -- which would help struggling homeowners, and/or make mortgages more expensive and harder to get for everyone else.  An Illinois House panel recommended impeaching Blagojevich, and heard Roland Burris deny making any deals to get the Senate nomination.  Sarah Palin lashed out at the media. YouTube of her comments is here. (Link has been corrected).  Gov. Paterson has begun talking down Caroline Kennedy's chances for the Senate nomination.  He's sent out a questionnaire to all the supplicants that is very detailed -- from kids' Facebook pages to Bernie Madoff connections. Andrew Cuomo won't say whether he's filled one out, apparently on the theory that it's none of voters' business to know whether he's interested in quitting his job as AG.  In Albany, the GOP Senators begin to get a taste of life in the minority. The Dems' decision to give a chairmanship to accused girlfriend slasher Hiram Monserrate was attacked by NOW.  NYT, following Newsday, reports on a pattern of attacks on Latinos -- 13, 9 over 2 years -- that paved the way for the murder of Marcelo Lucero, but were apparently invisible to Suffolk cops and officials. 
