Someone else's blog entry about the horror Bank of America put them through today reminded me I need to publicly post about my experience with them.  The letter I wrote to their CEO succinctly explains the situation.12 November 2008Mr. Kenneth D. Lewis, CEOBank of America Corporation100 North Tryon StreetCharlotte, NC 28202Dear Mr. Lewis:I became a Bank of America customer in December of 2003.  In that time I never bounced a check or overdrew my checking or savings accounts.  I never missed a payment or made a late payment on any of the three credit cards I had with your company.  In January of this year I was laid off from my job.  Despite being unemployed all year, I continued to make the minimum payments on the card which had a balance, kept a zero balance on one card which I did not use, and immediately paid off the other card whenever I used it.  My credit rating remained stellar.When it looked as though my finances would become tight in another couple of months, I called the credit card center, explained my situation, and asked if they could lower my monthly payment.  I had always heard that if one calls one's creditors, they would be willing to work out ways to keep one's account in good standing.  I called the credit card center expecting that kind of response.Instead, their response was to immediately close all three of my credit card accounts without warning.  I found out my cards were canceled only when I attempted to use my card a few days later and called to find out why it had been denied.  Further inquiries on my part were met with apologies for being unable to make an exception, in spite of my flawless banking record.I have since closed my bank accounts with Bank of America, transferred my banking to a community bank, transferred my credit card balance to Discover Card, and written about this incident in my blog.  The public needs to know this is how Bank of America responds to the proactive, good faith efforts of their customers to keep their accounts in good standing through challenging economic times.Sincerely Disappointed,wlotusCc: Bank of America Credit Card Division, PO Box 15019, Wilmington, DE 19850The office of the chairman sent me a letter in response. In essence their letter said, "Even though you do not agree, we followed all of our rules and did what we were supposed to do." In that case, they ought not mind the fact that I moved my business to other financial institutions. :-) I don't see why they bothered to respond just to tell me that; it isn't like that response would get me to consider doing business with them or encouraging my friends and family to do so. I guess they just wanted another chance to say their piece.I'll keep the letter for posterity, to remind me not to do business with them, and to remind me to tell my friends and associates not to do business with them.
