The Darkness And The Power Jim Kirwan 12-20-8 The Dictator announced his relief-package for the Big Three yesterday: The media is calling it a Christmas-gift. This is a LOAN-agreement: Gifts do not come wrapped in razor wire. This too-little-too-late proposal is meant to bring an end to the problem of having to pay anyone, for whatever they do on-the-job in the United States. This is the last link in the chain that will complete the Total Redistribution of Wealth in American society. And too many still, will not connect the dots. The problem that organized labor created for the corporatocracy has been a thorn in the side of business, since the days of the New Deal. Now its payback time and anyone that looks can almost see the saliva dripping from this proposal that is in reality, an ultimatum. Some of the details behind the headlines surfaced yesterday in a report from Greg Shotwell, a union activist that spent thirty-years working for GM. The danger of this that I see is that, you know, in the 90s, when the auto companies were making billions of dollars, they were taking profits out of North America and investing them overseas in Europe, South America and Asia. So theres been a huge transfer of assets overseas. Now, those assets would remain protected in bankruptcy. So what, in effect, theyve done is undermined the manufacturing base in the United States so that they could become a major importer to the United States. You see, they already have fuel-efficient-small fuel-efficient cars that theyre making in Europe and in Asia and in South America. Theyre ready for import. And they would like to be like Toyota. Yes, Toyota has plants in the United States, but Toyota imports about 46 percent of all the cars it sells in the United States. Thats what General Motors is setting itself up to do, and theyre going to use this capitalist disaster to help them wipe out the dealerships and close the plants. And Congress is just going to help them strong-arm the unions into giving up any job security or gains. Also, youre right about the bankruptcy. And this is one of their goals, is to wipe out the legacy costs. You know, the people who earned a pension and earned healthcare and retirement in the past, they would take that away. To me, its like a thirty-year mortgage. I paid my mortgage every week, and I paid it off. Now that house is mine. Now they want to say, well, were going to take it back. JUAN GONZALEZ: Now, obviously, there are those who continue to say that the labor costs in the auto industry, especially in the Big Three, are way out of whack. And could you talk, for those who are not familiar with, how this misrepresentation of what the labor costs really are of todays workforce among the Big Three has been created? GREGG SHOTWELL: Well, theres a good reason that the plants, the transplants in the South, have not been organized, and thats mainly because they make as much or more money as organized workers. And that was a strategy that the Japanese plants did on purpose, because they didnt want the plants organized. So they pay as much. The real difference is in what they owe the retirees, what they call the legacy costs. Now, youll hear in the media, theyll say GM workers get $73 an hour, and Toyota workers only get $45 an hour. They arrive at that $73 an hour by tacking on the cost of all the retirees onto the active worker. This is fraudulent bookkeeping. This is essentially a Ponzi scheme, wherein the old investors are paid off by the new investors. In other words, the older investors, the retirees, their pay-their pension and healthcare-comes from the new investors, the workers. I heard Keith Olbermann compare it to saying the average wage in America, and then you would add on everybody whos collecting Social Security or pensions. Its really preposterous. On top of that, I want to emphasize this. I earned my pension while I was working, not [inaudible] somebody else. The guy working today isnt earning my pension. I already earned that. General Motors should have taken that money, set it aside, put it in a trust. If they didnt do that, then theyve committed a malfeasance. Thats their responsibility. Also, when I was working, they charged the customer more money based on the fact, based on their excuse that we have to pay more for this worker because of healthcare and pension and his retirement, so we have to charge the customer more. Whether that was 1980 or 1990, they raised those prices. What did they do with that money? They apparently didnt put it in a trust. But they did-and this is a fact-theyve invested largely overseas. General Motors and Ford, they have more plants overseas than they have in the United States. Theyre ready to become major importers to the United States and dump all their responsibilities to the people who made those profits. (1) In many ways this mirrors what was done by government with Social Security. The money paid in by the employees was not put into interest bearing trust accounts  where it could have grown over time  instead it was spent as fast as it came in and the public received only federal drawers filled with IOUs instead of the money that was supposedly being held in Trust for retirees. In the case of the Big Three, they used the money paid (by their employees) into their employee-retirement-accounts to open up all those other plants overseas-that are now about to make possible the elimination of the work force whose money actually made this takedown possible. That is what this takedown is all about; to open the US market to imported GM, Chrysler and Ford products, and rid themselves of their obligations to deliver on the commitments they made to their employees over many decades. Their workers played the game by one set of rules, and now after the game has been completed the rules are being changed (again) so that those that sacrificed will be left with nothing. But theres Congress and theres much more: Congress acts like they had no responsibility. If Congress-you see, were the only country in the world that subsidizes outsourcing of our jobs. Other countries subsidize research and development, and they erect trade barriers to protect their basic industries. What we did was-we do not subsidize research and development, and we subsidize outsourcing. Those are other things that need to be changed. JUAN GONZALEZ: Gregg Shotwell, one of the things that you raise in some of the articles youve written is that theres a lot of attention placed on, again, labor costs, but that the actual production workers for the Big Three, their salaries represent about ten percent of the cost of a car, while the money spent for supervisors and management represents 20 percent of the cost of a car. But we rarely get any attention on that aspect of the compensation. GREGG SHOTWELL: No. You know, the media and Congress really look at UAW wages, and this just shows their bias. But, you know, these facts I got from the book Fat and Mean by [David] Gordon. And he points out that the United States actually has, you know, like three or four times as many supervisors and monitors as Germany or Japan, that we waste a lot more money on management. But, you know, the actual labor costs-you know, this is another aspect, I think, that people dont understand. I understand why, but-our productivity really should justify a raise. And when I say that, in 1992-you know, they say that-they justify all this, because were losing market share. Well, the market has gotten bigger. The pie is bigger. But General Motors is selling as many cars. And the notion that they dont like-people dont like GM cars belies the fact that theyve sold more cars than Toyota. In 1992, GM had 34 percent of the US market. This is from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. And they produced 4.4 million cars. Now, at that time, GMs hourly employment was 265,000. In 2005, the market share had fallen about eight percent, but they had produced the same level of cars, 4.5 million, with 111,000 workers. With 154,000 workers less, they produced the same amount of cars. They lost market share, but they still produced the same number of cars. Their productivity has doubled. So this would-in normal times, when your productivity goes up, that means you deserve an annual improvement factor, a raise. Weve experienced just the opposite. The only reason that autoworkers make what seems to be a higher wage than non-union workers is that we have a cost-of-living adjustment. We won that back in 1970. But we often do not get any raise at all. And in the best years, we only get a three percent raise. But its the cost of living that we have that is the difference between union and non-union. (1) In a nutshell: Business and the Big Three seized this opportunity to finally put an end to their labor-problems by dissolving their plants in the US, so that they could shirk their legal-obligations to the unions, to their dealerships, and to the communities that depend upon what their employees and their suppliers provided toward the health and welfare of millions of people in the US. At the same time the Big Three will finally be able to freely use the import markets without having the labor costs to slow them down ~ because to the Corporatopcry nothing else matters! Had the congress and the government not chosen to go along with this idea, none of this could be happening now. Just look at the official spin being put on everything from calling this a Christmas Gift, to blaming the workers for the problem, while omitting the real costs of manufacturing that are inflated by the fact that American workers do not have the same health protections that many of our foreign competitors provide for their workers. The real point at issue here is the continued existence of the entire American manufacturing base, all the way down to light industry-all of which will be directly impacted by the decisions reached over the outcom...
