Tuesday, January 13Tuesday morning I felt much better - and could talk almost normally - so after spending the morning sleeping, getting ready, and watching TV, ghostly_watcher and I headed out to go shopping!  I always try to buy a maneki neko wherever I go, so I wanted to stop by a Japanese store to check out their selection.We went to Dupont Circle; I stopped by the bank, then we stopped by the Starbucks to have coffee.  After coffee it was Japanese store time!  They had a reasonable selection of kittehs, including the Hello Kitty dressed up as a maneki neko that I hadn't seen except in San Francisco.  I didn't get another one though.  Instead, I got a little bowing one, two tiny glass ones (one for me, one for Deggy), and then a cell phone charm with three dancing cats.  :DWalked back to Dupont Circle, stopping at various points along the way.  There was a coffee/kitchen store with mugs, one of which I think some people I know would really love and appreciate someday.  Then there was the bath/aromatherapy store that was closing - everything smelled so good, but was too heavy for me to bring back.  Last was the bead store!  Oh gods, I love bead stores.  I picked up a couple of beads I liked, and then some beads to make a pair of sample earrings.It was getting rather late, so we walked down to a Kosher deli Deggy had heard was good.  Since neither of us were quite hungry yet, we kept walking until we got to the Georgetown shopping district.  We walked far enough to get to the American Eagle and discover nothing interesting.  Then we turned around to head back for dinner... and found a bookstore!  :D There were very nice reduced price books!  I couldn't help it!  Also a very pretty copy of Pablo Neruda love poems.So, loaded down with our purchases, we walked back to the deli for dinner!  It was quite delicious.  On our way there Deggy had joked that she always knew someone in a kosher deli in the area.  As we were eating, one of her cousins walked in!  The family hasn't seen him in a while, so she (and her mother, who was on the phone) was very excited.Once dinner was done we walked back to Dupont Circle, stopped at the Bank of America, and then went back to College Park.  Spent the rest of the evening packing and marathoning as much of Suzumiya Haruhi as we could.  I also worked on some apps - oh crap, need to finish those - and clicked dragons.Which you should do for me.  
