...and I do actually feel different, despite my usual use of death cab lyrics.New years resolutions.  I've struggled with them this year.  Mainly because I make them every year and tend to forget about them.  Which is silly, to keep doing that.Last year my new years resolution was consistency - I wanted to be consistent.  Date less people for longer time, be consistent about my health, keep my job.I'm not sure I want to follow that same pattern this year.  I'm not entirely happy with my current status quo, so why stick with it?  Maybe this year will be about change.I have three goals for the year.  And I'm going to do a monthly update, at the end of the month, as to how I'm doing.1.  Continue working on my fitness level.  This past year I did a lot of good work, working out once and then twice a week with Jae, trainer of trainers.  I will keep up the training this year, and I want to incorporate 3 cardio sessions a week.  Also cook more, because when I cook I eat better.2.  I want to pay off my three major credit cards - discover, bank of america, and chase.  This means that I will not be funding my 401k this year, but I can't see the logic in funding an account when I am paying more in interest every month on these credit cards (which I haven't used in a year).  Once I pay them off I will fund the 401k.  The raise I got this year should be enough to get them taken care of.  I'm excited to be out of cc debt this time next year.  I did a lot of good work this last year but I have a ways to go.3.  This time next year I want to be a small business owner.  I want the website up, advertising materials printed, marketing started, and events booked.  I know we can do it, and I'm so excited to get started (especially since I decided to code our website myself, which will be fun but a lot of work).There you have it.  Look for an update as to how I'm doing on the last day of the month.And, as is our yearly tradition in the yellow house, behold Lucy's annual new years picture:MERRY HAPPY NEW YEAR!hugs,Em and luc
