LONDON (SHARECAST) - London's blue-chips remain in buoyant mood, with financials clawing back some of their recent heavy losses.   Bargain hunters have moved into the banking sector, encouraged by reports that hard pressed US banking giant Citigroup was profitable in the first two months of the year and had revenues of $19bn.   Barclays leads the banking sector higher while HSBC also racks up a double-digit percentage gain after Sandy Flockhart, chief executive officer of HSBC Asia Pacific, said HSBC had a good January. Lloyds Banking joins in the party; having fallen below 38p yesterday in the aftermath of the announcement of the company's participation in the government's Asset Protection Scheme, the shares are now knocking on the door of 50p, a level last seen at the end of February.   Insurers are also on the recovery trail, with rumours of bear covering on Legal &amp; General, Standard Life, Old Mutual and Prudential as short positions unwind.   Hedge fund group Man is the best performing blue-chip after Citi went out on a limb and altered its recommendation from "sell" to "buy", with a 200p price target. Citi analyst Haley Tam said that "with a strong balance sheet and at, in our view, a compelling low valuation  we think this 'falling knife' is one to try to catch." In a buoyant mining sector, copper miner Antofagasta is sharply higher after the company sweetened results with an increase in the underlying dividend. Lower copper and molybdenum prices cut underlying earnings by 40% at Antofagasta last year, even though production rose smartly.   Xstrata is also going well, homing in on the price target of 330p set by Morgan Stanley yesterday. The US bank revised its previous price target of 750p to take into account the effects of the recent rights issue.   Defensive stocks are being abandoned, however. Utilities such as International Power, Drax, Scottish &amp; Southern Energy, United Utilities and Severn Trent are all wilting, while defence-related stocks such as Smiths Group and Cobham also retreat. Even the appeal of gold has lost its lustre, with gold miner Randgold edging lower.   Security solutions provider G4S put in a strong all-round performance in 2008, with new markets trading especially well. Group turnover rose 22% at constant exchange rates to 5,942.9m from 4,868.4m in 2008, of which 9.5% was organic growth. Profit before interest, tax and amortisation (PBITA) climbed 23% at constant exchange rates to 416.4m from 338.7m.   Despite sluggish growth in North American revenue, inter-dealer broker Tullett Prebon posted 'excellent results' for 2008. Total revenue rose 25% to 943.6m in 2008 from 753.8m in 2007, with revenue from fixed income (+28%) and information sales (+26%) posting above average levels of growth. Heavyweight rival ICAP moved up in sympathy.  (F&amp;C) is an exception to the generally firmer trend in the financial sector. It confirmed it is no longer in an offer period after discussions with a number of parties ended. Friends Provident confirmed it intends to make a pro-rata distribution of its 52% stake in F&amp;C to its shareholders during 2009. F&amp;C also announced its year end results today, with losses coming in at 50.5m from 18.7m profits last year. Assets under Management was 98.6bn (2007: 103.6 billion) despite sharp declines in major indices.   Beleaguered lender Cattles is another financial stock on the slide, after it said it will incur 'significant' losses for 2008 and will need to restate figures for 2007 as it suspended three more directors in its ongoing financial probe. The group also believes that it is in breach of covenants under its borrowing arrangements and will be seeking waivers from its debt providers.   Engineer Weir said 2008 proved to the best operating year in its history but did give warnings about the current year. Profit before tax for the year surged 53% to 176.2m as revenue rose 30% to 1.4bn with all three divisions enjoying positive market conditions for the majority of the year and first time contributions from its acquisitions.   Spread-betting firm IG Group saw group revenue for the three months to February rise 33% but said the overall growth of the business has been hit by tough comparatives. Group revenue for the quarter was approximately 62m compared to 46m. The shares crashed by 25%.   Higher ingredient and energy costs knocked profits at bakery chain Greggs last year, though underlying sales rose and are up this year so far despite the snow.   Oil and gas outfit SOCO International expects to push output to record levels in 2009 after ending 2008 with the strongest balance sheet in the company's history. The company swung into the black in 2008 after posting a pre-tax loss of $8.86m in 2007. Pre-tax profit in 2008 from continuing operations was $37.39m, achieved on revenue of $55.34m. Despite a cocksure statement from chief executive, Ed Story, that "it's hard to imagine being better positioned to weather the world financial crisis," the stock has succumbed to profit taking after its recent good run. 
