Unemployment may still be rising and the economy may be nowhere near a bottom, but Wall Street's manic mood bubbled higher on Wednesday.  Cheered by reports showing a surprising increase in home-building last month, stock markets climbed in the last half-hour of trading, with major market indexes rising to their highest levels since late February.  Construction companies like KB Home, the Centex Corporation and Toll Brothers paced gains in the broader financial markets after the government reported that new-home construction in February rose 22 percent from January to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 583,000. It was the biggest percentage gain since January 1990 and the first increase since April.  Economists had expected housing starts to decline slightly as home builders pulled back in the face of dwindling demand and competition from a flood of foreclosed properties.  The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 178.73 points or 2.48 percent at 7,395.70 while the broader Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index rose 3.2 percent higher. The technology-heavy Nasdaq gained 4.1 percent. Bank stocks including Citigroup and Wells Fargo rose moderately while Bank of America was off slightly.  Since last Monday, the S.&amp;P. 500 has bounced 14 percent off its 12-year lows, and the Dow has risen about 12 percent. The sudden lift, coming on the heels of less-dire economic and corporate reports, has prompted experts to wonder whether the markets are pulling a head-fake or beginning a streak of sustainable gains. 'I see this as a bear market rally, pure and simple,' said Albert McAloon, portfolio manager at the Burney Company. 'A large number of investors are running with their emotions.' Crude oil settled at $48.89, up $1.54 a barrel in New York trading.  Stocks ended just below the break-even point on Monday after four days of gains that had lifted the markets some 10 percent last week, but by Tuesday afternoon, it was back to the races as investors bid up shares as they waited for more economic guidance from the Federal Reserve, whose Open Market Committee was meeting Tuesday and Wednesday.  The government also said that wholesale prices in the United States edged up slightly in February, but flatter energy prices and the continuing global economic downturn kept any price increases to a minimum.  The Labor Department reported that its producer-price index rose by a less-than-expected 0.1 percent last month from January. The so-called core index, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, rose by 0.2 percent, a shade more than economists had expected.  The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, fell 1 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London was flat. The CAC 40 in Paris fell 0.8 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt declined 1.4 percent.  Shell and Nokia led European indexes lower. Shell fell 2.7 percent after it said it had not been able to replace all of the oil and gas reserves it used up in 2008. Nokia fell 2.9 percent, after saying it would adapt to slumping demand for its cellphones by cutting 1,700 jobs, including 700 in its home country of Finland.  On Monday, the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index fell 0.4 percent, breaking a four-session winning streak.  Most stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region posted another day of healthy gains on Tuesday although most market watchers continued to caution that investor sentiment and economic fundamentals remained fragile. Many of Asia's leading markets, including Australia, China, Japan and South Korea rose 3 percent or more Tuesday, while Thailand and New Zealand gained nearly 1 percent. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index, which had risen during the previous five sessions, closed down 0.7 percent.  The Nikkei 225 stock average in Tokyo's 3.2 percent gain capped its best three-day gain in four months on optimism that government and central bank policies will lift the market and restore growth. Financial shares led the rally, after the British bank Barclays said Monday that it had had a strong start to 2009, comments that echoed cautiously upbeat assessments by Citigroup and Bank of America in the United States last week.  Still, most analysts warn that economic fundamentals around the world remain weak, and that economic data and company results for the first quarter of this year will probably reveal an even deeper downturn than in the last three months of 2008, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers triggered a near-freezing of the credit markets.  The euro continued to gain ground against the dollar, ticking up to $1.272 from $1.2968 late Monday in New York.Lee Hardman, a currency analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in London, said so-called 'safe haven' demand for the dollar has diminished because the global authorities have helped to restore a degree of stability to financial markets. In a note to investors, Mr. Hardman pointed out that a report Monday from the Treasury showed foreign investors had become net sellers of $148.9 billion of American assets in January, after they bought a net $86.2 billion in December.
