 Asian share markets were mostly lower Wednesday with auto companies driving Tokyo down and financial stocks falling for another day across the region, while downbeat economic data cast a cloud over sentiment in Australia. 'With nothing material having changed on the global outlook we remain defensive overall,' said Societe Generale currency strategist Patrick Bennett. Japan's Nikkei 225 was down 1.6% with South Korea's Kospi Composite off 1.5%. New Zealand's NZX-50 gained 1.4% after days of heavy falls, but it was not far from its recent five-year lows. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 was the weakest link, down 2.5% after poor gross domestic product data there raised doubts about the health of the economy and spurred risk aversion in other markets, weighing on currencies like the euro and the New Zealand dollar. The declines came after U.S. stock indexes fell for the fifth straight session, while U.S. futures were now mildly lower: Google fell 3.2% in late trade after Chief Executive Eric Schmidt called the economic situation 'pretty dire' and said he didn't expect an improvement until 2010. Palm Inc fell 11.3% after-hours, saying it expected third-quarter sales to be far short of Wall Street expectations. MGM Mirage dropped 10.3% after saying if adverse conditions continued it may not be in compliance with its financial covenants in 2009. Still, pension fund buying was expected to limit the losses in some Asian markets, including Japan and Taiwan. In Tokyo, auto stocks were weak after tepid U.S. February sales data and with more talk that companies were going cap-in-hand to the government for funds. Toyota fell 2.5% while Nissan shed 2.0%. The Nikkei reported several automakers were turning to government lending to secure operational funds, with Honda Motor later confirming it was seeking funds. Domestic growth-related stocks were weak in Australia after fourth quarter GDP surprised to the downside: GDP contracted 0.5% on the quarter, compared to an expected rise of 0.1%, with GDP up 0.3% on the year, against a forecast 1.1% gain. It was the largest quarterly fall since the fourth quarter of 2000. Wesfarmers was down 4.7%. 'Stocks reliant on domestic growth have been hardest hit,' said Macquarie Private Wealth senior private client adviser Marcus Droga. 'I suspect those disappointed by this number will be on the sell side and buyers may well step aside.' Financial stocks fell in Seoul with KB Financial down 1.4%, while a rebound in the U.S. dollar against the Korean won was hurting stocks with dollar-denominated debt; Korean Air fell 3.0%. New Zealand shares however had been overdue for some bargain-hunting, said analysts. 'On the whole people are looking around' and asking themselves if things were cheap, said Macquarie Equities broker Ian Witters, though he added trading volume was very light. Among big-cap stocks, Fletcher Building was up 1.9% and Fisher &amp; Paykel Appliances up 4.2%. There was a large fall in the Australian dollar after the GDP release as the currency slumped to US$0.6291, from US$0.6389 just before the data came out. 'The weakness of the GDP has clearly taken a lot of people by surprise. It looks like the global problems have hit Australia harder than some people expected,' said a dealer at ANZ Bank. RBC Capital Markets senior economist Su-Lin Ong added the Australian economy was 'clearly flirting with recession. It hasn't even felt the full impact of this global recession yet. The terms of trade are yet to drop, business investment is yet to decline, and yet the economy is already contracting. So I think it tells you very clearly which way the risks are skewed going forward.' The data spurred concern more broadly in the currency market with the New Zealand dollar also dropping against the greenback (it hit its lowest level since October 2002), while the euro sank to $1.2490, from $1.2540 earlier in Asia, going to its lowest level since November 21. Against the yen the euro dropped to Y122.60, from Y123.50 earlier in Asia, while the U.S. dollar slipped briefly to Y98.13. Japanese government bond futures were down 0.09 at 139.11 points. 'It's a boring market - no good flows, very quiet, volume very light,' said Credit Suisse strategist Kenro Kawano, adding 'we've lost the courage for moves to either side.' Spot gold slipped 80 cents to $915 a troy ounce after falling to one-month lows in New York, still under pressure from margin call-related selling as players sought to raise cash to cover positions in the stock market. April Nymex crude oil futures were 15 cents lower at $41.50 a barrel on Globex, after rising $1.50 or 3.7% in New York. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
