 MENLO PARK, Calif., Nov 24, 2008 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- Friends Without a Border has announced the opening of the Center for Friends Without a Border in Siem Reap, Cambodia. Located next to the Angkor Hospital for Children, the Center is designed to increase awareness of the many programs sponsored by Friends while helping to promote Green architecture and renewable energy in Cambodia. Visitors to the Center will be able to observe exhibits by world-renowned photographers, learn more about the history of Cambodia and see the remarkable impact and progress being made through the medical care, education and outreach programs provided by the Angkor Hospital for Children.The Center was funded by Sterling Stamos Capital Management of Menlo Park, CA and New York, NY, a private investment firm committed to the idea of corporate philanthropy and "doing well by doing good." "We are proud to have helped fund such a remarkable facility," said Peter Stamos, Chairman and CEO of Sterling Stamos. "The Angkor Hospital for Children has been a wonderful project that has dramatically contributed to the well-being of the children of Cambodia. This project allows us to express our sincere gratitude for all that both Friends and Angkor Hospital have done."The Center was designed pro bono by Cook+Fox Architects in New York and is the first green, sustainably designed project of its kind in Cambodia. Cook+Fox, well-known for its design of the Bank of America Tower in New York City, the first LEED Platinum skyscraper in the U.S., used techniques for minimizing energy use and recycling water, as well as sustainably-procured and locally-crafted materials. Forever changed by his encounters with Cambodian children in dire need of medical care, famed Japanese photographer Kenro Izu founded Friends Without a Border in 1996 and helped construct the Angkor Hospital for Children. Since 1999, Angkor Hospital has treated over 560,000 children and is the largest pediatric HIV treatment facility outside the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh.Sterling Stamos is a private investment firm that invests globally using an endowment approach across five asset classes: fixed income, equity, absolute return, real assets and private equity. With principal offices in New York City and Menlo Park, CA, Sterling Stamos has over $8 billion in assets under management. Read more!   
