Neil Mason joins Foviance as director of analytical consulting  London, UK, 6 November 2008  Foviance, the expert in digital customer experience, today announced the completion of its acquisition of Applied Insights, a leading provider of analytical consulting solutions to blue chip businesses. The acquisition will accelerate the development of Foviance&amp;#8217;s technology agnostic analytics division and supports Foviance&amp;#8217;s strategy to provide a comprehensive customer experience solution to its global customer base.  The acquisition brings Applied Insight&amp;#8217;s director and co-founder Neil Mason to the Foviance team as director of analytical consulting. With his vast experience, he will serve on Foviance&amp;#8217;s board of directors and lead the company&amp;#8217;s new initiative and analytical consulting practice. Mr. Mason is a renowned industry figure and brings Applied Insights best practices of predictive analytics, optimisation and measuring digital marketing effectiveness to Foviance. He also brings with him Applied Insights existing blue chip client base which includes Barclays, BP and Total Jobs and he will have a pivotal role in developing further Foviance&amp;#8217;s strategic partners such as Omniture and Google.  Neil Mason joins Foviance with 25 years of in-depth industry experience in marketing analytics and strategy. Prior to founding Applied Insights, Mr. Mason has worked in a number of senior leadership roles for many major companies including QXL ricardo and Research International UK. He also currently serves on the board of directors of the Web Analytics Association, the global industry body for digital analytics professionals.  &amp;#8220;The combination of Foviance&amp;#8217;s expertise in delivering seamless cross-channel experiences with Applied Insight&amp;#8217;s leadership in understanding data analytics, is ideal for our customers, both in providing innovative services and optimising usability and conversion rates&amp;#8221; said Paul Blunden, CEO, Foviance. &amp;#8220;Our combined global customer base now has a partner with proven expertise to deliver a strong blend of business, analytical and technology consulting capabilities.&amp;#8221;  &amp;#8220;Many e-businesses are looking to improve their online performance but are not clear about what they should be measuring or how to measure it effectively, our merger with Foviance presents us with an incredible opportunity to improve the digital usability experience for businesses globally,&amp;#8221; said Neil Mason, director of analytical consulting, Foviance.  About Foviance  Foviance is a leading customer experience consultancy that works globally with some of the world&amp;#8217;s best known brands to deliver measurable improvements in performance. .  Founded in 2001 and with a heritage in website usability and data analytics, Foviance delivers consultancy to its clients about the effectiveness of their individual channels, such as mobile, web and call centre and how they combine in a cross-channel environment. For many clients, insight is provided not only in their home market, but also internationally through Foviance extensive alliance network.  Foviance engages with its customers wherever they are in their product lifecycle, and provides insight so they understand how to improve, create and deliver excellent customer experiences.  Foviance boasts 43 of the UK FTSE 100 companies among its client roster, including Barclays, BSkyB, and Sainsbury&amp;#8217;s. In addition Foviance works with International brands such as Astra Zeneca, Dell and Nokia. For further information please visit: www.foviance.com  For further information:  Melanie Hesketh / Becky Cheers  Prompt Communications for Foviance  +44 208 8996 1638 / +44 208 8996 1636  Foviance@prompt-communications.com
