Indian shares tumbled sharply as the the reverberations of the turmoil in the US financial market was heard in India. The 30-share sensitive index fell sharply by over 700 points in the early tradings. However, later on, the market recovered a bit to close 470 points lower at 13,531 than the Friday closing. The news of sale of Merrill Lynch to Bank of America and filing of bankruptcy by Lehman Brothers affected the sentiments of investors world over. In fact, the crisis in Lehman Brothers, which was reeling under the mortgage losses, had been there for quite some time, affecting the Indian stock market. In the last four trading sessions, sensex has shed 945 points. The National Stock Exchange index Nifty also lost 155.55 points, or 3.68%, at 4,072.90, after dipping below 4,000 level at 3,955.40. Added by AgenciesLehman-invested Indian cos lose Rs 2k crLehman Brothers' move to file for bankruptcy wiped off more than Rs 2,000 crore from the market valuation of those Indian companies in which the US financial major has made equity investments.Lehman itself recorded a loss of more than Rs 50 crore on its investments in India, which is nearly 10 per cent of its current holding worth an estimated over Rs 500 crore.The loss would have been much higher if Lehman had not started offloading its equity holding in Indian companies late last month. In a major selling spree that started on August 21, Lehman has sold shares worth close to Rs 400 crore in nearly 10 companies, including NIIT Ltd, Cranes Software, Amtek Auto, Amtek India, Fedders Llyod, Northgate, Mastek, Triveni Engg and Prajay Engg. Prior to this sell-off, Lehman's Indian equity portfolio is estimated to have been worth more than Rs 1,000 crore, which has now nearly halved to about Rs 500 crore.Most of the shares offloaded by Lehman in India, including those in NIIT, Cranes, Amtek Auto, Amtek India and Northgate, has been purchased by Deutsche Bank, according to the bulk and block deal data available with the bourses.Besides the 10 companies where Lehman has offloaded its shares, Lehman had equity holding in about two dozen firms at the end of June quarter.These firms include Spice Communications, Spice Mobile, Anant Raj Industries, Edelweiss Cap, IVRCL Infra, Tulip Telecom, Consolidated Construction, PSL, Orbit Corp, Development Credit Bank, Champagne Indage, Godawari Power, KPIT Cummins, West Coast Paper, IOL Netcom, Dhampur Sugar, Prithvi Info, Golden Tobacco, Emkay Global, Vijay Shanti Builders and Pioneer Embroidery.
