  What accounts for the earnings gap between the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC) and the other Singapore sovereign wealth fund, Temasek Holdings?  GIC, whose chairman is Singapores Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew, said annual returns in the past 20 years averaged 7.8 percent in US dollar terms. But Temasek -- whose CEO is his daughter-in-law, Madam Ho Ching -- has had an average annual return of 18 percent since it was created in 1974. That puts Temasek almost in the same category as Warren Buffett, whose investment firm, Berkshire Hathaway Inc, gained 21 percent, says Bloomberg, in the past two decades.   GICs annual real returns averaged just 4.5 percent, according to Singapores Straits Times newspaper. There are differences between the two Singapore funds. GIC was set up with the sole purpose of managing Singapores foreign reserves. It has well over $100 billion, says the GIC report -- 44 percent in public equities, 26 percent in fixed income bonds, 23 percent in real estate, private equities, venture capital and other alternative investments, and 7 percent in cash. Analysts estimate it has more than $250 billion, says the Straits Times. Temasek started by promoting state enterprises in Singapore. Over time, both have invested in foreign companies. GIC has stakes in Citigroup and UBS while Temasek was the largest shareholder in Merrill Lynch until the Wall Street firm was bought by Bank of America. Temasek is also the biggest shareholder in Standard Chartered bank and has a stake in Barclays. Temasek is smaller than GIC, but its $134 billion in assets include market leaders like Singapore Airlines, repeatedly voted the best airline in the world; the Singapore port operator PSA International, which is involved in port operations from India to China; Singapore Telecom, which earns a huge chunk of its revenue from countries across Asia Pacific; and DBS Bank, the biggest bank in Southeast Asia.  In fact, some of the Temasek companies and subsidiaries are probably better known than those associated with Warren Buffett and his investment firm.    Sure, everyone has heard of Fruit of the Loom, a Berkshire Hathaway subsidiary. But unless you are very rich, you probably dont need to know about Netjets, the fractional jet company. Buffett is now taking a $5 billion stake in the bank, Goldman Sachs, and his company already has business interests ranging from Borsheims jewellery to the Dairy Queen fast-food chain. But Berkshires core business remains insurance.  Temaseks principal investments, on the other hand, are in banks followed by telecom and transport operators. And the investments range from Asia to the US, including well-known names like Bank of China and ICICI Bank in India. Berkshire remains focused on the US.  Yet Berkshire Hathaway is twice as rich as Temasek, with $273 billion in assets last year. There are other differences. Buffett, the richest man in the world, draws an annual salary of $100,000, according to Forbes. The former chairman of DBS, Jackson Tai, who resigned on December 31 last year, received seven million Singapore dollars (about $4.9 million) in remuneration. The current chairman, Koh Boon Hwee, was due to receive a million Singapore dollars subject to shareholders approval, according to the banks corporate governance report. Neither Temasek nor GIC is obliged to report the salaries of their bosses.       
