UPDATED 5.00 PM EDT: Wall Street, DJIA,  Sep 4 2008, Closing Numbers Ilargi: I thought Id open today with a look at the New York Stock Exchange. This is the portrait of little people losing big money.When it comes to economic reality nowadays, and especially media coverage of it, 99% of the population seems to be made up of two kinds of people: Those who dont know, and those who dont want to know. They are the ones still buying cars and houses -or at least trying to-, and they are the ones investing in the stock market. These days, that means they are being fattened to get plucked of all their feathers, and then slaughtered, like so many chickens.Bill Gross is not one of them. Bill Gross has a pretty good idea of what is good for Bill Gross. But "opening up the balance sheet of the U.S. Treasury", as he insists is needed, is not so good for those of us who are not Bill Gross.His warnings are right on the money, very much so; his solutions are self-serving.He even wants to set up a -new- way to subsidize home loans, pretending it would be good for buyers. First off, that would require putting Fannie and Freddies $9 trillion in debt on the Treasurys books, though. Those books are backed by taxpayers. A new home-loan scheme would then add more of the same, i.e. losses.Well, been there done that. That is exactly what Fannie and Freddie have done. And look at the result. And now he wants more of the same under a different name? There would be no US housing industry left to speak of if these two wouldnt have bought 80% of all mortgages in the past two years. So did it help? It only helped putting US taxpayers deeper into the gutter. Homes are hugely overpriced, and its crazy to want to keep that scam going. The last ones that is good for are the very homebuyers that all these schemes are supposed to benefit.Basically, what he says is that US taxpayers should now buy up all the assets -not just mortgage related ones- that nobody else wants to touch anymore. And that is really the way Bulgaria used to run its economy. Perhaps still is. The difference is that Bulgarias finances were in much better shape that the US today. Bill Gross extends a sort of open invitation to move from Bulgaria to Weimar. And Im sure hes figured out a way to do well even there. Well, Bill, its not going to happen. Were too far gone.U.S. Government Must Buy Assets to Prevent 'Financial Tsunami,' Gross Says The U.S. government needs to start using more of its money to support markets to stem a burgeoning "financial tsunami," according to Bill Gross, manager of the world's biggest bond fund.Banks, securities firms and hedge funds are dumping assets, driving down prices of bonds, real estate, stocks and commodities, Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said in commentary posted on the firm's Web site today. Since financial markets seized up a year ago as the subprime-mortgage market collapsed, the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index has fallen 13 percent and home prices are down more than 15 percent."Unchecked, it can turn a campfire into a forest fire, a mild asset bear market into a destructive financial tsunami," Gross said. "If we are to prevent a continuing asset and debt liquidation of near historic proportions, we will require policies that open up the balance sheet of the U.S. Treasury."The government needs to replace private investors who either don't have the money to buy new assets or have been burned by losses, Gross said. Pimco, sovereign wealth funds and central banks are growing reluctant to fund financial firms after losses on investments they made to support the companies, Gross said. The world's biggest banks and brokers are retreating after more than $500 billion in writedowns and credit losses since the start of 2007 and have raised $364.4 billion in new capital. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds, debt backed by commercial mortgages as well as credit cards reached record highs last month relative to benchmark rates.Treasury should support not only mortgage finance providers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but also "Mom and Pop on Main Street U.S.A.," by subsidizing rates on home loans guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration and other government institutions, Gross said. A new version of the Resolution Trust Corp., which bought assets from failing institutions during the savings-and-loan crisis of the 1980s, may also work, he said.U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson arranged a rescue package for Washington-based Fannie and Freddie of McLean, Virginia as concern escalated the government-chartered companies didn't have capital to withstand the housing slump. Treasury pledged to pump unlimited debt or equity into the companies should they need it.As Fannie and Freddie, banks, securities firms and hedge funds shrink, yields on all debt assets will rise compared with benchmark rates and volatility will increase, Gross said. The declines will end once sellers have depleted their assets and sufficient capital has been raised, Gross said. Unless "new balance sheets" emerge, prices of almost all assets will drop, even those of "impeccable" quality, he said."There is an increasing reluctance on the part of the private market to risk any more of its own capital," Gross said. "Liquidity is drying up; risk appetites are anorexic; asset prices, despite a temporarily resurgent stock market, are mainly going down; now even oil and commodity prices are drowning."The extra yield demanded on Ginnie Mae's 30-year, current- coupon mortgage-backed securities over 10-year Treasuries has climbed to 1.75 percentage points, from 0.87 percentage points at the start of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bonds guaranteed by the U.S. agency are backed by the U.S. government. Spreads on 2-year AAA rated bonds composed of federally backed student loans have climbed to 0.95 percentage points over benchmark rates, from 0.01 percentage points below, Deutsche Bank AG data show.Pimco, a unit of Munich-based Allianz SE, is seeking to take advantage of declines in home-loan bonds. The firm is raising as much as $5 billion to buy mortgage-backed debt that has plunged in value, according to two investors with knowledge of the matter. The Distressed Senior Credit Opportunities Fund will invest in securities backed by commercial and residential mortgages, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the fund is private.The decline in home prices hasn't been seen since the Great Depression, Gross said. That drop translates to an even bigger decline in overall wealth as the effects ripple through markets, Gross said. Home prices in 20 of the largest U.S. metropolitan areas fell 15.9 percent in June from a year earlier, according to an S&amp;P/Case-Shiller index.Fannie and Freddie 30-year fixed-rate mortgage bond yields, which influence the rates on most new home loans, have probably risen 75 basis points because of the waning demand, Gross said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. About 61 percent of the holdings of Gross's Pimco Total Return Fund were mortgage-backed securities as of June 30, mostly debt guaranteed by Fannie, Freddie or Ginnie Mae, according to data on Pimco's Web site.The fund returned 9.8 percent in the past 12 months, beating 97 percent of its peers in the government and corporate bond fund category as of Sept. 3, according to Bloomberg data. The returns are 5.76 percent annually over five years. Pimco has about $830 billion of assets under management. "In a global financial marketplace in the process of delevering, assets that go up in price are rare diamonds as opposed to grains of sand," Gross said.U.S. Initial Jobless Claims Rise Fastest in Five Years First-time claims for unemployment insurance climbed more than forecast, and benefit rolls reached a five-year high, underscoring a deteriorating job market that threatens to erode consumer spending.Initial jobless claims rose to 444,000 in the week ended Aug. 30, while the number of Americans continuing to collect benefits increased to 3.435 million in the prior week, the Labor Department said today in Washington. A private report indicated separately that U.S. companies cut 33,000 jobs in August.The figures reinforce projections for tomorrow's August employment report from the Labor Department to show an eighth straight month of payroll declines. Households may cut spending as employment prospects dim, property values decline and credit becomes harder to get."We're continuing to get sort of a grinding slackening in the labor markets," said Michael Gregory, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. "Businesses are becoming more cautious about hiring and layoffs continue. At some point this begins to weigh increasingly heavily on the consumer."ADP Employer Services said the 33,000 decline in private payrolls followed a revised gain of 1,000 for the prior month that was lower than previously estimated. Treasuries rose, sending benchmark 10-year note yields to 3.68 percent at 9:37 a.m. in New York, from 3.70 percent late yesterday. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Stock Index dropped 0.6 percent to 1,266.81.Economists had forecast initial claims would fall to 420,000 from a previously reported 425,000 in the prior week, according to the median of 40 projections in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from 405,000 to 435,000. "We're still in an uncomfortable situation with respect to job growth," Richard DeKaser, chief economist at National City Corp. in Cleveland, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. "The underlying trend here is not a good one for August."Economists forecast the Labor Department will report tomorrow that nonfarm payrolls fell by 75,000 in August, following a drop of 51,000 the prior month, bringing the total decline this year to 538,000. The jobless rate stayed at 5.7 percent, the survey indicates. The four-week moving average of initial claims, a less volatile measure than the weekly f...
