               What a week! On Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its largest one day loss since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The Dow lost 504 points. Losses were also seen on the Nasdaq and the S&amp;amp;P 500. It all came amid jitters caused by the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and the sale of Merrill Lynch to Bank of America. And then we learned about the federal buyout of insurer AIG. Individuals are asking what can we do to stay afloat financially?Jennifer Matthews, President and CEO of Creating Financial Literacy based in the Baltimore/DC area says, People need to know that the best decision right now is no decision. People have to be very careful about pulling money out of any investment right now.According to Matthews, people need to know that Lehman was not a bank. It was a brokerage firm so money there was not insured. If someone has their money in a bank or credit union, their money is insured by the government up to $100,000. She suggests those who have investments outside of a literal bank or credit union call their financial institution and make certain their money is insured.Jason Costner, who has worked for Ameriprise for six years and has been a financial planner for a total of eight years, advises that people invest according to their risk tolerance level. He thinks this is a good time to really evaluate your investment risk level. People with low-risk tolerance levels should not make risky investments. He believes people should look at the long-term effects of their investments. Those who are near retirement, or are already in retirement, would be best advised to make conservative investments. If they currently have high-risk investments, they may want to reconsider.Costner encourages investment diversification, because it helps you spread risk throughout your portfolio, so that investments that do poorly may be balanced by others that do relatively better. Diversification, asset allocation and dollar-cost averaging do not guarantee overall portfolio profit or protect against loss in declining markets.He provides some investment tips:1. Review your financial plan  now is the time to make sure thatyour financial plan addresses the current volatility as well asyour long-term goals, and to make adjustments if necessary.2. Dont let emotions affect your financial future  market upsand downs will always occur and the turbulent markets we haveseen are likely to continue in the near term.Keep your long-term focus in mind anddont let emotions drive your decisions.3. Diversify, diversify, diversify  proper diversification andasset allocation is more important than ever during times likethese. Dont forget the importance of product diversificationalong with asset diversification.4. Be disciplined  over time, disciplined investment strategieslike dollar-cost averaging can help smooth out marketfluctuations, and help you weather these volatile markets.5. Avoid market timing  being out of the market for even a shorttime can cost you significantly. Trying to predict the exacttimes the markets will rise and fall is almost impossible andcreates undue risk. Simply put, market timing does not work.Walter Singletary, a financial consultant and registered representative for Capital Financial Services, has been a financial consultant for more than 10 years and is dually licensed in both the securities and insurance industries. Because of this great market downturn, I do not believe people should get nervous and sell off right away unless their investments are directly impacted by the great bad credit investments and hyped collateralized mortgage backed securities.He advises people to ask your investment professional if your monies are in any way directly linked to these companies which have some responsibility for the crisis. If you and your investments were not directly dependent on an expected surge in the mortgage, predatory lending and the housing development markets - in general (as was with some of these other companies), then ask your investment professional where can you throw some extra money into this market.Singletary states, Remember the old adage: Buy low, sell High! He believes this is the American attitude that has the potential to help boost the economy and eventually help the market to correct itself. He recommends you make sure to do your research. Dont panic; and do check out financial planners and advisors who can direct you to the right places. Don't go it alone unless you are a seasoned sophisticated investor with high net worth.Jennifer MatthewsPresident and CEO of Creating Financial Literacy(410) 918-0086financialeducator@verizon.nethttp://www.creatingfinancialliteracyllc.com/Jason CostnerFinancial PlannerAmeriprise Financial(410) 771-1358Walter J. SingletaryFinancial Consultant/Registered RepresentativeCapital Financial Services, Inc.(484) 769-3139Securities and Investment Advice Offered ThroughCapital Financial Services, Inc.Broker/Dealer Advisor Member FINRA/SIPC1 Main Street North * North Dakota 58703Phone (701) 837-9600Fax (701) 857-1891)           
