15 September 2008I wrote recently that there is a tsunami coming in gold.As a long-term gold investor, it never crossed my mind that gold would retreat to the levels it has recently. Think $739.80 on September 11, 2008 - down almost $300 from its (modestly valued) March 17, 2008 peak of $1033.90.Fundamentally, the present collapse in gold's market price makes no sense at all at this moment in time - though technically, we all know that investments need to test and retest price support levels of all kinds, including those that reside at lower levels than make us comfortable.As I post this blog, Wall Street has now lost three of its five leading independent brokerages. Lehman Brothers (once an Alabama-based  cotton brokerage, and now in Chapter 11) is being broken up to feed the vultures, and Merrill Lynch is being acquired by Bank of America. Bear Stearns is already long gone. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have just been nationalized at a cost of $5.2 trillion to the US government's debt ledger. AIG's fundamentals look worse than Lehman's. And the FDIC is on a rapid path to implosion.News events such as the above are the fundamental factors which drive the value of gold. It's supposed to go up when events such as these occur!In fact, if investments didn't test and retest in this way, they would rapidly form into bubbles, and then, just as rapidly, pop. Investments just do this. It is a fact of the market.Technically, gold has broken down from its almost 8-year bull market support levels.The price of gold may now be in a bearish tailspin which could persist for one to two years - or it may not be....However, one fundamental fact must be considered. Gold is in a long-term bull market because global currencies are devaluing at a rapid rate.Over a space of days, weeks, months, even several years, no investment price has to be rational (that is, driven by fundamentals).Investment prices are driven by emotion-based and strategic human decision-making, not by rationality.However, over the span of many years and decades, rationality has a tendency to assert and reassert itself. That is part of what the testing and retesting of prices is all about.I find it helpful to anthropomorphize gold, which of course is the height of irrationality.Gold is an inert physical substance without will and motive. It just is. Its value is in what it means to the humans who hold it as a form of savings.However, it is simply too complex and counter-intuitive to interpret gold's behaviour in terms of the motives of all those who buy and sell it - "black box" computer programs, naive buyers and holders, and savvy traders included.Adam Hamilton has made a good case that commodities have recently been pulled down to irrational levels by their linkage to oil in the reformulated CRB index. His argument is coherent. Oil and its products now constitute 1/3 of the CRB, so when oil falls, all the indexed commodities come down with it.But I'd rather think of it this way....Gold has a personality, it is humble and unself-assuming, but supremely, flawlessly self-confident. Gold knows where it is going, but it doesn't care how it gets there. Further, gold doesn't like "easy-riders," those who are holding it for predictable (or "minimum") annual gains. Gold doesn't like those who hold it to place demands on it or who have very particular expectations of it.Gold shrugs off all of that "relationship" stuff.History tells us that gold is willing to take away 50% in one year, but to give back 100% in another. When it wants to....And gold stocks can give and take away more!In short, gold does what it wants to do on its way to standing still - as the only ultimately secure financial investment in the world!When individuals, institutions and governments behave responsibly in matters of finance, gold doesn't have to do very much at all.Gold is also willing to be forgotten while we are caught up in illusions of value in things that have no value (think of the recent US internet and credit bubbles as recent examples only).Gold doesn't care what we do.But it knows what it must do, and it does it effortlessly.Gold stores value in all times and at all places.It's that simple.When we value gold at a price that is too low - as is now occurring - gold does not complain. In fact, it richly rewards those who buy it at such prices.Gold is also willing, however, to disappoint us for extended periods of time. I have often made reference to the SPTGD (S&amp;P TSX Global Gold Index), which has now provided no gains at all to its holders over the past 6-1/2 year period in which gold has tripled (and at one point, quadrupled) in market price.Ha! Ha! Ha!Gold doesn't care.I do feel confident that when the gold price pulls back irrationally, particularly as powerfully as has recently occurred, this signals something entirely unrelated to failure.The present reversion in the gold price is a signal of quiet, deep power. Gold is gathering its energies for its next surge. Given the sharpest pullback in the bull market to date, I think the next surge will also be the strongest in the bull market to date.When will gold surge again?Maybe today.Maybe in two years.Maybe... when it wants to.Gold in fact stands still - it does literally nothing at all - while all the world dances around it.All of the drama - the surges, the consolidations, the crashes, are phenomena that result from our human reactions to what gold is - which never changes.We change.Gold stands still.This is relativity, more or less as Einstein understood it.Gold will surge when we comprehend that the value of our currencies has receded. It is our own motion that gives perceived motion to gold.I know that our human actions will cause gold to surge in market price - almost certainly in the form of a financial tsunami..I just don't know when.And I don't need to.All I need to do is to hold gold, or to hold shares in mining and exploration companies that own the right to hold gold in the ground, or to extract it at their will.Nothing more.The golden tsunami will take care of itself._
