  Scoopit! A FT contributor suggests the establishment of a Global Monetary Authority as a consequence of the current crisis. Is this a utopian ideal or a practical option? Washington recognises that the crisis has become global. Hank Paulson, Treasury secretary, has said that foreign banks operating in the US will be eligible for federal assistance and he is urging other nations to fashion their own bail-out programmes. Central banks have also been synchronising injections of funds into markets. These should be steps to a more comprehensive international response designed not just to extinguish the current fires, but to rebuild and maintain the capital markets for the longer term. The cost of the US bail out alone is likely to reach and may even exceed the $2000 billion Adam mentioned in a recent post. The global sum is likely to easily reach that, once we take into account the impact of bank write downs, credit restrictions etc. AS the author writes:- the international dimensions of finance are mind-boggling. Global assets have increased from $12,000bn in 1980 to nearly $200,000bn in 2007, far outstripping the growth of gross domestic product or the expansion of trade. An increasing amount of this capital now resides in Asia and the Gulf, not the US or Europe. A US company such as AIG sold more of its credit default swaps and insurance policies outside the US than within it. UBS employs 30,000 Americans, is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and owns Paine Webber. The capital markets will evolve in the context in which emerging market economies will be growing twice as fast as the rich nations and will, by mid-century, probably account for almost two-thirds of global GDP. Adam&amp;#8217;s emphasis. Quite simply against that the Paulson plan for US$700 billion may be too little too late! The author concludes:- In terms of US and international politics, a Global Monetary Authority is probably an idea whose time has not yet come. That may change as todays crisis evolves. 
