Treasury Secretary Paulson has asked Congress to authorize the government to buy up to $700 billion dollars worth of Mortgage Back Securities (MBS) in order to stabilize their market price, which reflects the underlying value of the mortgages that back them, and to improve the financial health of the banks and other financial institutions that own them. The proposal has raised more questions than it has answered. After a false start of forbearance in which insolvent Savings and Loan associations were artificially kept alive in the 1980, the elimination of 747 S&amp;amp;L with efficient bank resolution tools left the American banking section in much stronger condition in the 1990s, which helped drive the rapid economy growth of the last decade. Financial institutions that have made too many mistakes should be resolved (efficiently liquidated) not bailed out. Until last week the governments measures in this area (Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) where broadly appropriate. The as yet to be fully defined massive bail out of the MBS market is a much more questionable undertaking. I discussed the background to the current situation in &amp;quot;The ABCs of the Housing Crisis&amp;quot; and more extensively in &amp;quot;The U.S. Mortgage Market: the Good, the Bad and the Ugly&amp;quot;. The background to our current financial problems is that the United States as a whole is over leveraged. There is too much debt and too little saving. Efficient borrowing/lending can be very beneficial, but too little saving for the whole country and for individuals during their working years reduces productive investment and the income growth it produces and increases the economys vulnerability to shocks. As a nation our net savings rate became negative in 2005 and remained near zero until this year. This has been possible because of high savings rates in the rest of the world and the ability of foreign governments, firms and individuals to invest large amounts of these savings in the United States. Foreigners were willing to invest in the U.S. (largely in government and private sector debt and to a much lesser extent in equity) for only modest yields because of their confidence in the safety of U.S. investments and they were able to do so because our (previously) overvalued currency (the so called strong dollar) created a large current account deficit (excess of imports over exports) that foreign investments in the U.S. helped finance.[1] The inflow of foreign savings has kept interest rates low in the U.S. in recent years. This is a so called real rather than a monetary phenomenon. During the period from December of 2001 until November of 2004 the Federal Reserves overnight interest rate (fed funds rate) target was below 2% and the unusually low interest rates of this period are thought to have feed the housing price bubble. Many have claimed that these low rates were the result of excessively easy monetary policy, but this claim is somewhat contradicted by the evidence. During this period of low interest rates the broad measure of the money supply (currency plus the publics deposits with banksM2) grew on average at 6.2%, exactly the same average rate as between 1980 and now.[2] During the shorter period between December 2002 and June 2004, when the fed funds rate was below 1.25%, M2 grew on average at 6.1% per year. However, when the fed funds rate was above 5% from November 1994 through March of 2001 the average growth rate of M2 was 6.4%.[3] The Federal Reserves adjustments in its interest rate target were largely stabilizing the growth in the money supply. A significantly higher fed funds rate during the 2002 to 2004 period would have resulted in much lower if not negative M2 growth. Interest rates were determined largely by the inflow of foreign saving. None the less, interest rates were negative in real terms (less than the inflation rate) and contributed to market exuberance. A slower than trend M2 growth (and thus higher fed funds rate) might have been more appropriate. Furthermore, M2 began growing in March of 2004 and the Fed should have begun increasing its Fed funds target rate sooner than it did. During this period of low interest rates housing prices rose dramatically and financial market innovations exploded. Among the most important innovations were the growth and heavy reliance on securitization of debt (reselling it) and the reliance on collateral rather than expected cash flow when approving loans. In the case of mortgages, mortgage originators often sold the mortgages they issued to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or to private sector consolidators who packaged them together as collateral for a type of bond called a mortgage backed security (see &amp;quot;The U.S. Mortgage Market: the Good, the Bad and the Ugly&amp;quot;). These MBSs were then sold far and wide around the world to investors whose funds financed the growth in home ownership and rising home prices. With the inevitable bursting of the real estate bubble, the estimated mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates priced into mortgage lending rates and the privately issued MBSs proved optimistic and the value of these MBS began to decline.[4] This, and uncertainty over how far housing prices will fall and foreclosures will rise, are core features of the financial crisis we are now in. The losses in value to investors in mortgages and mortgage backed securities, though very large, should be absorbable by the widely disbursed holders of such securities without too much difficulty. However, the considerable uncertainty over the ultimate magnitude of these losses and increased concern over the status of other complex financial assets as economic activity slows have reduced the ability to trade these instruments (reduced their liquidity) resulting in a scramble among commercial and investment banks to replace their lost liquidity and to replenish their reduced capital. Not knowing who held these risky MBSs, banks also became reluctant to lend to each other. The continued flow of normal bank lending has been tightened and a credit crunch threatened. A number of factors have been assigned some blame for the unexpectedly high losses in value and liquidity of some MBSs. Lenders were pressured into expanding sub prime loans by government policy that wished to increase home ownership for lower income families. However, even the reduced standards for qualifying for a mortgage loan were sometimes exceeded or ignored by lax or negligent underwriters eager to collect commissions. As long as housing prices were rising the risks of default seemed small. Over reliance on collateralized rather than cash flow lending contributed to weakened underwriting standards or the monitoring of compliance with those standards. MBSs issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are guaranteed by them (ultimately by tax payers) while private issue MBSs were generally divided into risk tranches and rated by rating agencies.[5] The rating agencies grossly under estimated the risks of subprime and Alt-A mortgages, which had only a limited history in a rising market on which to base expected default rates. Unregulated or lightly regulated capital markets have many advantages. Regulations impose restrictions and compliance costs on financial dealings. If these costs exceed the benefits to the market in the form of safer loans, the costs of raising and allocating capital are increased to the detriment of investment and growth. In unregulated markets financial engineers are limited in the instruments they can create only by the willingness of investors to buy them. But this is a serious and important limitation common to most all products and their markets. The contracts by which mortgage back securities are packaged and sold were carefully developed to reassure potential investors that their risks were carefully controlled and understood. Underwriting standards are clearly stated and their enforcement is generally guaranteed or insured by the issuer or by third party insurers (by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the case of MBS issued by them). It is hard to imagine that better contracts could be designed by regulators and they facilitated the flow of large amounts of money into mortgages, most of which are sound and beneficial. Yet things went wrong. Peter Fisher, former Treasury Undersecretary for Domestic Finance, has argued that over reliance on collateral (for a mortgage, the house itself is the collateral) rather than cash flow (an assessment of the ability of the borrower to pay) lending has contributed both to lax underwriting standards (e.g. no doc or liars loans) and lax monitoring of the enforcement of those standards. He anticipates the reduction of securitization (collateralized borrowing) either as a result of regulation or market forces.[6] Heavy reliance on collateral leaves borrowers to decide whether they can afford the loan or not. Borrows have a knowledge advantage in making the assessment. Whether they use that knowledge wisely will depend in part on whether they expect to suffer negative consequences from wrong judgments. With rapidly rising housing prices both borrowers and lenders assigned low risks to default. In fact, many borrowers fully intended to resell homes they knew they could not afford at higher prices before being forced to default (flipping). A critical feature of keeping borrowers honest and thus of relying on borrowers assessments of their own ability to meet their payment obligations is to insure that they have enough of their own money at risk. Thus a reasonable down payment is critical. The traditional norm was 20% but government sponsored FHA loans require as little at 3%. When borrows have little or no financial stake in the loan, stricter regulation and scrutiny of their income and credit worthiness is needed. Some in Congress have proposed to give courts the authority to force a loan restructuring if in the judgment of the court the resu...
