         The local market got hit today with news Lehman Brothers filing for bankruptcy with a whopping $613b worth of debt listed on it books. Merrill Lynch has been bought out by Bank Of America in a bid to avert another collapse, and AIG is scrambling to survive with a  planned restructure.   These events all occurred on a Sunday night US time, whilst our market was actually trading. Our market seemed to take the unfolding events in its stride with almost all financial stocks obviously suffering but the large miners were resilient, and towards the close of trading the local market staged a mild rally.  What happens from here to me is still not clear.  The recent collapse in oil prices has taken away significant inflationary pressure and that is an extremely good thing. High inflation did not cause the sub prime mess but it certainly made a significant contribution. With very encouraging although still early signs of inflation cooling down there is plenty of room for a surprise rate cut from US authorities. Whether a sizable rate cut will be enough to kill the fear gripping the markets right now is another thing but I would not discount the possibility.  One major negative is the actual magnitude of the unfolding events with Lehman carrying $613b in debt. Logical guessing suggests that this will take time to clear up.   For our local market there is clearly a disconnect here, with a number of billion dollar deals, like Linc Energy's $1.5b coal deal, and Origin Energy's $9.6b JV with Conoco Phillips  still being signed in the resource sector.   The market however is not paying much attention.  Just when it started to look like the fear was beginning to ease the above mentioned events hit the local market and the grip of fear has retaken a firm hold with a vengeance.  So on  one side we have the solid fundamentals of the companies that are listed on our stock exchange, and those strong companies make up the All Ordinaries index, but our market refuses to rally due to the ongoing fear that is taking hold.  Looking at the chart below we can see that the crucial support line was yet again tested today and it bounced off it. The market is still range bound as the fear provides downward pressure, whilst the strong fundamentals provide upward pressure.    To me, it is almost as if the market wants to rally, but with global events taking hold we could actually see a collapse. One crazyjimsmith.com forum member actually expressed a desire to see sharp collapse so that all the pain can be over and done with in a short space of time, as opposed to the ongoing stalemate that continues to afflict our local market.           
