After listening to Fresh Air today I think I may understand what happened that led to the fall of these huge financial institutions, but not really sure. Paraphrasing and plagiarizing: we all know banks gave mortgages to borrowers who probably could not make the payments, or did not require documentation of assets because the banks assumed home prices would continue to rise and they could refinance based on a higher-priced house. The banks then sold the mortgages to people who bundled them into securities and sold those securities to all sorts of financial institutions. Some of those financial institutions then "sliced and diced" them according to various characteristics (i.e. level of risk), bundled them again and sold the interests as another set of securities - called CDO's or collateralized debt obligations - to other financial institutions. Ratings agencies gave them an investment grade rating even though they were based on mortgage loans to a borrower who probably could not pay the mortgage - why, I don't know. Thus, all of these institutions were betting on the fact that borrowers who probably could not afford to pay their mortgages would somehow be able to pay because housing prices would "always go up". The buyers of CDO's hedged their investment by buying "credit default swaps" - an insurance-type instrument sold by people like AIG who, in return for a premium, guaranteed payment if a party defaulted (but who? the original borrower? don't know). The insurers, also assuming housing prices would continue to rise, overextended themselves, being unburdened by capital reserve requirements or valuation procedures because they were not considered insurance products and were exempted form regulation as "futures". When housing prices started to fall, the insurer didn't have the money to pay the obligation, the investment banks who thought they were insured were not, and could not pay [who?] when [who?] defaulted. One scary thing: nobody knows how much exposure to these securities is out there among the various financial institutions, so how many potential failures there are is a mystery. The rumour is Citibank is in trouble - can you imagine if they failed?
