Interest rates are falling, but how far they will drop is a question being asked by more than 100,000 households that have $13 billion of mortgages rolling over soon.Christchurch couple Carla and Warren Amos have $355,000 coming off a six-month term next month after buying a second home this year.They, like thousands of other Kiwi homeowners, are not sure how long they should refix their mortgage for or whether they should go on the higher floating rate until the rates drop. 'How long do we put it back in for to take advantage of however low the rates are going to go?' they said. They were worried about fixing the mortgage for a certain length of time and then seeing the rate drop a couple of per cent, which would see them miss out on any savings.A 1 per cent drop could save them $68 a week, or $3550 a year. 'It's a huge amount of money to miss out on. Even if it's only 0.5 per cent, it makes a huge difference.' They fixed the mortgage for six months originally because they thought the rates would have dropped further by now.The Reserve Bank was widely expected to drop the official cash rate (OCR) by 100 basis points from 7.5 per cent to 6.5 per cent on October 23, but it is being pressured to lower rates sooner because of the international economic turmoil.However, not all of that is expected to filter down to interest rates because the cost of gaining international credit is increasing.David Holme, of Christchurch, is another homeowner not sure what to do.He has a substantial amount coming off a two-year fixed term in February and is watching the market closely.He thinks he would be better off to pay a slightly higher rate and fix it for five years, knowing he could afford it and watch the fluctuations happen around him.Holme was worried about fixing his mortgage for only two years, then having to pay more at the end of that period. 'The economy looks so fragile that it could do anything. I'm not old enough or wise enough to back my own judgment,' he said. Economists and mortgage brokers are advising anybody with mortgages coming off a fixed-interest rate to refix for six to 12 months.Christchurch mortgage broker Stuart McLeod said he would split the mortgage and have half on a six-month rate and the balance on a 12-month rate. 'I do think these interest rates in New Zealand are going to come down a lot quicker than people think,' he said. McLeod expected that from the middle of next year New Zealanders would experience the lowest interest rates the country had seen in 20 or 30 years.He could see floating rates hitting 9 per cent early next year and the three-year fixed rate just over 6 per cent late next year. 'The global economy is going to really need to be kick-started. Interest rates around the world will be bought back and as a result of that it will enable us to bring our rates lower as well,' he said. It was then that people should lock in longer-term fixed rates, McLeod said. 'Any time in New Zealand you see three-year interest rates below 7 per cent, that is the time to lock into long-dated stuff like three, four and five years,' McLeod said. 'But don't do it yet; wait 12 months before you do it.' Christchurch mortgage broker David Tillman advised people to be wary of two-year rates that might look good now, but would be regretted if the predictions about the dropping rates were true. However, he was a believer that it was not the interest rate that mattered; it was the amount of interest you paid.People should look at simple strategies for paying their mortgage off faster.There was a bulge of households rolling over fixed-term loans this month and next because of a mortgage war in late 2004 when banks battled for customers by discounting two-year fixed rates.These people could end up having to pay a much higher interest rate than two years ago, when two-year fixed rates were between 8.05 per cent and 8.1 per cent.Kiwibank was offering 7.99 per cent on a two-year fixed rate, but most other banks were sitting around 8.7%, although experts were expecting this to drop.ANZ National Bank chief economist Cameron Bagrie has a more pessimistic view of the rate cuts, and urged people to look at why the rates were being cut.He said the housing market was going to get thrown a lifeline by lower interest rates, but if people looked at the reason the lifeline was being thrown it was not positive news for the housing market. 'The bottom line here is it's not a pretty economic picture,' he said. He expected house prices to drop 10 per cent to 20 per cent, and while that looked grim it was on the back of a 90% rise in five years. 'People need to get their head around the idea that this cycle is going to take a little bit of time to pan out,' Bagrie said. 'This is not the sort of cycle where house prices just flat-line for a few years. 'We are going to see outright falls.' Bagrie said New Zealand could see interest rates drop to as low at 6 per cent next year, but only if there were a lot of nasty developments around the globe and in New Zealand.
