  Shadow Treasurer Julie Bishop has called on the nation's banks to follow ANZ's lead and cut interest rates. ANZ yesterday sliced a quarter of a percentage point from its key home lending rate. And Aussie Home Loans quickly followed suit.Sky News reported this afternoon that Aussie had become the second lender to cut its variable interest rates, slashing it by 30 points.Speaking to the media in Perth today Ms Bishop said compared with the rest of the world Australia's banking sector was strong and it was time for the banks to pass on record profits to their customers. I would urge all institutions to pass on rate cuts to small business in particular, she said.Not only the mortgage holders, but also small business so they can decrease their loans and their overdrafts.It is essential for the growth and the stability of our economy that small business can continue to grow and continue to employ people. Jobs and job security is the most important issue going forward.The decision by ANZ followed falls in interest rates on international credit markets this week on the back of a host of taxpayer-funded rescue packages.This included the Rudd Government's pledge to guarantee all bank deposits and international loans raised by Australian banks. ANZ chief executive Brian Hartzer said his bank's cut was the right step at the right time to reward customers. It will save lenders with a $300,000 mortgage about $50 a month. The ANZ, like all other major banks, only passed on 80 per cent of the full percentage point cut in official interest rates delivered by the Reserve Bank on October 7.Most other banks are now charging customers about 0.75 percentage points above current official interest rate levels.ANZ's move reflects a growing view that the worst of the global credit crunch may have passed thanks to the various bailouts implemented by the US and European governments. Meanwhile Federal Housing Minister Tanya Plibersek said there were early signs that confidence was returning to the residential housing construction market.The ABC reported that Ms Plibersek visited a display home centre at Kellyville in Sydney's north-west and said the return of confidence was the result of the Government's decision to increase the first homeowners grant. 'All of the builders I spoke to said there had been a significant increase in the number of people calling and coming to the 'Homeworld' to look at new places,' she said. 'One builder I spoke to said that in the first hour after the announcement he'd had five calls, and that it had been years since he'd had that sort of interest.' ALEISHA PREEDY and STAFF WRITERS
