Westpac and the Commonwealth Bank have reduced their standard variable home loan rates by 80 basis points, passing on most of the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) cut in the overnight cash rate.Westpac's rate cut to 8.56 per cent will be effective from October 13, the Sydney-based bank said in a statement.The Commonwealth Bank of Australia's (CBA's) rate has been reduced to 8.53 per cent.The RBA, after its regular monthly board meeting on Tuesday, announced it would cut the overnight cash rate by 100 basis points to six per cent, effective on Wednesday.Last month, Westpac passed on all of the RBA's 25 basis point rate cut that was announced on September 2, reducing its variable mortgage rate to 9.36 per cent. 'Westpac will continue to monitor the external environment, and our cost of funding position, and will look to pass on further interest rate reductions where possible,' Westpac's head of retail and business banking Peter Hanlon said in the statement. 'Since the beginning of September this year, term funding costs have increased to the highest levels seen since this crisis began over 12 months ago.' Westpac said about 50 per cent of the bank's lending was funded with deposits, with the remaining 50 per cent of funding coming from short and long term borrowing in Australia and overseas.The bank said the cost of its funding base had increased materially over the past year, and most notably in the last few weeks.CBA's rate cut will be effective from October 13, the Sydney-based bank said in a statement.CBA also cut its basic variable rate to 8.02 per cent.Last month, CBA passed on all of the RBA's 25 basis point rate cut that was announced on September 2, reducing its variable mortgage rate to 9.33 per cent. 'We value our customers and are reducing rates as much as possible today given our current very high wholesale and offshore funding costs,' CBA group executive retail banking services Ross McEwan said in the statement. 'While we are not reducing our variable home loan rates by as much as the RBA reduction, we do expect global financial markets to normalise over time and once that does occur we will be able to reduce rates by more than the RBA adjustments. 'Our customers can also expect out-of-cycle interest rate reductions.' Economists at ANZ Bank say the cut in the official cash rate could be followed by a coordinated reduction by global central banks later on Tuesday. 'Rumours are now circulating that today's aggressive move by the RBA is the precursor for coordinated interest rate cuts by global central banks tonight,' ANZ economists Warren Hogan and Katie Dean said in a research note. 'Given the depths of the global credit crisis, this cannot be ruled out.' They said apart from the US Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England, other central banks that could possibly move tonight are the central banks of Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Canada.
