WELLINGTON, Oct 23 (Reuters) - New Zealand's central bank slashed interest rates by a record one percentage point on Thursday and said further cuts are in the pipeline as the global financial crisis threatens to exacerbate a local recession. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand cut its official cash rate to 6.5 percent, the lowest since January 2005, citing financial market turmoil and markedly slower economic growth. Analysts said the bank's move was in line with expectations, but noted its comments that it was still concerned about high inflation, although that would not stand in the way of further rate cuts. 'It was an unprecedented move, but the bank has cut in line with expectations and flagged an easing bias,' said Khoon Goh, senior economist at ANZ-National Bank. 'The Reserve Bank gave a timely reminder that inflation is still their focus and they continue to remain concerned about stubbornly high domestically generated inflation. We continue to see further easings ahead, but the market shouldn't lose sight of inflation concerns just yet,' he said. It was the central bank's third rate cut since July, when it reduced them for the first time in five years from a record 8.25 percent. The New Zealand dollar rose after the rate cut to around $0.5924 from around $0.5836 previously. Short-term debt rose, with the yield on the benchmark 90 day bank bill 23 basis points higher at 6.47 percent. Twelve of 16 economists polled by Reuters had expected the central bank to cut rates to 6.5 percent, with the other four picking a 75 basis points cut to 6.75 percent. The RBNZ said it expected the economy to be slower than it forecast in its September statement, with business and consumer spending expected to cut their spending as credit becomes harder to get. Exports were likely to face lower demand although the lower New Zealand dollar and oil prices would partly offset that. RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard said further rate cuts could be expected as annual inflation was set to fall back within the bank's target 1-3 percent target band by mid-2009. It had previously forecast a return to the band by early 2010. 'However, the timing and extent of OCR reductions over the coming months will depend on evidence of actual reductions in domestic cost pressures as well as how the global financial developments play out,' he said in a statement. He said domestic cost pressures, including labour costs, local authority property taxes, power and building costs remained stubbornly high. The annual inflation rate hit an 18-year high of 5.1 percent in the third quarter on higher food and oil prices, but is seen at close to peaking and of lesser importance in the current global financial environment. (Editing by Jonathan Standing) . ng COPYRIGHT Copyright  
