 SYDNEY, Oct 13 (Reuters) - Australian job advertisements fell in overall terms in September, a survey showed on Monday, as the economy showed rapid signs of cooling in the face of the worst global financial sector crisis in decades. The total number of job advertisements fell 1.4 percent in September from August to an average 245,734 a week, on top of a 4.9 percent drop in August. Ads were down 2.2 percent over September last year, according to the survey from Australia and New Zealand Banking Corp . The survey showed the number of job advertisements in major metropolitan newspapers rose 0.7 percent in September to 15,206 per week, leaving them 24.9 percent lower on September last year. Internet job advertisments were 1.5 percent lower in September at an average 230,529 per week. That was 0.2 percent lower on the same month of 2007. "Heightened financial market volatility, falls in global equity and commodity prices, and uncertainty over the global economic outlook have intensified over the past month," said Warren Hogan, ANZ's head of Australian economics. "The latest result indicates that hiring intentions continue to soften through the second half of 2008 and eventually this will show up as a weakening of employment growth and a rise in the unemployment rate." Government data last week showed that the jobless rate rose to 4.3 percent in September, reversing a surprise drop to 4.1 percent in August, and adding to expectations of further rate cuts by the central bank. The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) stunned markets last week by cutting its key cash rate by 100 basis points to 6.0 percent and markets are pricing in a hefty 75 basis point cut at its next meeting in November. (Reporting by Anirban Editing by James Thornhill) . ng COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Financial  Limited 2008. All rights reserved. The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial  Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial .  LSE and PLUS quotes are live. NYSE and AMEX quotes are delayed by at least 20 minutes.All other quotes are delayed by at least 15 minutes unless otherwise stated. By accessing the services available at ADVFN you are agreeing to be bound by ADVFN's  ::  ::  :: 
