SYDNEY, Oct 9 (Reuters) - Queensland Treasury Corp (QTC), the finance arm of Australia's resource-rich state, will start next week an international roadshow to update debt investors on its largest-ever funding programme, an official said on Thursday. QTC said it would need A$16.3 billion ($11 billion) in funding for 2008-2009, up from A$13.8 billion last financial year. QTC said it will look at bond opportunities in a range of currencies including U.S. dollars, British pounds and euros, but has not set a timeframe. 'The basis swap has always worked against us until recently, but it has changed as a result of the credit crisis,' said Richard Jackson, head of financial markets at QTC. The Australian basis swap spread is important for local borrowers because it reflects the cost of raising funds offshore and converting them into Australian dollars through a cross-currency swap. 'It makes other currencies more attractive now than they were previously,' Jackson added. The investor update will take QTC in the Middle East, Europe and New York. Stops in the Middle East will include Abu Dhabi, Bahrein, Doha and Dubai. ANZ Institutional Bank, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Deutsche Bank, National Australia Bank, UBS and Westpac Institutional Bank are arranging the presentations. QTC has a registered bond programme with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission but has not used it in a long time, Jackson said. The state, which is rated triple A by all major ratings agencies, has a funding target that is typically below swap. It raised in August NZ$ 325 million ($197.7 million) of 2017 Kauri notes. Kauri notes are New Zealand dollar bonds sold by foreign borrowers in New Zealand. ($1=1.482 Australian Dollar) ($1=1.644 New Zealand Dollar) (Reporting by Cecile Lefort).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
