Australia and New Zealand Banking Group reported a 32 percent drop in second-half cash profit due to a sharp rise in bad debt charges as the global credit crunch bites, sending its shares down 5 percent.The result missed analysts forecasts after provisions for bad debt almost doubled on the previous half, though the bank said it expected profit growth to return in the year ahead barring a further deterioration in financial market conditions.Rival National Australia Bank, the country's largest lender, earlier this week reported a quadrupling in bad debt charges and warned of tough times ahead as the country's banks grapple with slowing Australian growth and key offshore markets in recession.ANZ's cash net profit fell to A$1.355 billion ($916 million) in the six months ended Sept. 30 from A$1.988 billion a year ago. Analysts had on average forecast cash profit for the second half at A$1.494 billion. 'Overall, it's a result that shows their core banking operations are still operating resonably well ... on the bad debt, at least there were not further adverse surprises there,' said Angus Gluskie, portfolio manager at White Funds Management.Cash earnings, effectively the core profit, excludes one-off items and non-cash accounting items and forms the basis for dividends payable to shareholders.The bank said cash profit for the full year fell to A$3.03 billion, its first full-year profit decline in 10 years. It declared a final dividend of 74 cents.ANZ's shares were down 4.5 percent at A$18.14 Thursday, compared with a 3.2 percent fall in the underlying S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index. No EscapeAustralia's banks have not been hit as hard by the credit crunch as many of their European and U.S. counterparts, but have not escaped higher wholesale funding costs squeezing their lending margins amid the credit crunch. 'We're going into a major economic slowdown and more businesses are going to get into trouble...The banks will face some more write offs on the corporate front. There's no doubt about that,' Gluskie said. 'There is no doubt ANZ's book of business carries a few more risks due to its heavier exposure to the corporate sector,' Gluskie added. ANZ's total provisions for credit impairment for the half year to September 2008 were A$1.267 billion ($856 million), up sharply from A$681 million in the first half.ANZ Chief Executive Mike Smith said that if prevailing conditions remained the same, the bank expected to grow profits next year. 'The growth in credit losses is disappointing but our ability to manage and absorb this shows a high level of resilience,' Smith said. ANZ had warned about three months ago its profits would fall sharply and forecast more than $1 billion in bad debt charges as the global credit crisis started to hurt.On Tuesday, NAB reported a 38.5 percent fall in its second-half cash earnings and a quadrupling in bad-debt charges.Next week, Westpac Banking, Australia's fourth-largest lender, and its takeover target, St George Bank, will report full-year results.ANZ shares have fallen 31.3 percent so far this year, slightly less than the 32.1 percent fall taken by the underlying S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index this year.
