  will slice 0.2 percentage points from its variable mortgage rate from next Monday. The cut was announced as Prime Minister Kevin Rudd went on national TV to answer questions from everyday Australians about the global economic crisis. He said the Government's $10.4 billion economic stimulus package would be followed next year by tax cuts and infrastructure spending. NAB chief Ahmed Fahour said he hoped the package would stop the economy sliding into recession. 'The banks have to put in here to do as much as they can and this is our contribution to our customers,' he said. NAB's move comes hot on the heels of the ANZ, which dropped its variable rate by 0.25 percentage points late on Friday. The decision brings NAB's variable rate to 8.36 per cent and cuts about $31 a month from a $200,000 mortgage. The NAB's business lending rates will also fall by 0.2 percentage points and some mortgage fixed rates by 0.3 percentage points. A spokesman for the Commonwealth Bank, which has a standard variable rate of 8.53 per cent, said the bank would review its rates this week. Westpac spokesman David Lording declined to comment on whether the bank's standard variable rate would come down from 8.56 per cent.  said it would review its standard variable mortgage rate after dropping the rate by 30 basis points for first-home buyers at the weekend. The latest cuts by NAB and ANZ follow a 0.8 percentage point cut by all four major banks this month after the Reserve Bank slashed a full 1 percentage point from official interest rates. Quizzed by an audience of ordinary Australians on the Seven Network last night, Mr Rudd said the Government was doing everything it could to bolster the economy. 'I want to make sure that when we look back that I can say to myself: 'It's been tough, it's been hard, nothing's guaranteed but we've done everything that was logically possible at the time',' Mr Rudd said. Despite the Government's action plan,  chief economist Tim Toohey predicted a recession by Christmas. 'We think it's quite likely that by the time Christmas rolls around, Australia will be in its first recession since this expansion began 17 years ago,' he said. Mr Toohey said it was likely more interest rate cuts would ensure the recession was short by historical standards. Economists are tipping the RBA to again move on official interest rates, with a further 0.5 percentage point cut on Melbourne Cup Day. 'I think the RBA will try to get rates below 5 per cent fairly quickly. It could be as much as a 75 basis points cut in November and then the remainder in December,' said Commsec chief economist Craig James. 'So I think by Christmas we'll see a cash rate of around about 5 per cent or a little bit below.' 
