SYDNEY, Oct 24 (Reuters) - The New Zealand units of Australia &amp;amp; New Zealand Banking Group and Westpac Banking Corp have internally securitised NZ$8.7 billion ($5.1 billion) of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), Fitch ratings said on Friday. Such securities are the first ones to be created in New Zealand following the Reserve Bank of New Zealand's move to accept them as collateral in its money market operations to alleviate liquidity pressures. Previously, New Zealand banks had not securitised mortgages, preferring to keep them on their balance sheet. But they are now scrambling to access liquidity any way they can amid the global credit crunch. Analysts say more banks including ASB Bank, a unit of Commonwealth Bank of Australia, and Bank of New Zealand, a part of National Australia Bank, are expected to create similar securities. Internal securitisation involves converting mortgages into securities that then become eligible for repurchase agreements with the Reserve Bank. More than A$100 billion ($65.88 billion) worth of RMBS have been securitised internally by banks in Australia, where the central bank also now accepts them as collateral. ANZ's offer, called Kingfisher NZ Trust 2008-1, is for a total of NZ$3.71 billion which will be issued in several stages, according to Fitch. ANZ did not say how much has been initially issued. The top rated class A tranche, to be rated F1+ by Fitch, consists of commercial paper, while the class B tranche is rated AAA. Westpac's offer consists of NZ$5 billion of RMBS, Fitch said. In Australia, Westpac and Citigroup have also completed two internal securitisations. Westpac added A$21 billion to its Australian dollar internal securitisation programme set up in February, bringing the total to A$32 billion, according to Moody's. The increase, called Series 2008-1M Trust, consists of three tranches: --A$19.8 billion of class A1 notes, rated Aa1 by Moody's; --A$329.1 million of class B notes, rated Aa2; --A$724 million of unrated class Notes. Meanwhile, Citigroup has internally securitised A$800 million of RMBS, it said on Friday. The offer, called Securitised Australian Mortgage Trust 2008-2, consists of two tranches: --A$776.8 million of class A notes rated AAA by S&amp;amp;P, --A$23.2 million of class B unrated notes. ($1=1.708 New Zealand Dollar) ($1=1.518 Australian Dollar) (Reporting by Cecile Lefort) . lw COPYRIGHT Copyright  
