The federal government needs to examine its 'four pillars' policy so that local banks don't fall behind rapidly consolidating US and UK rivals, a executive of Australia New Zealand Banking Group said. Brian Hartzer, the head of ANZ's Australian operations, said one implication of the recent wave of mergers among US and UK banks could be that Australian banks would start to look 'pretty small'. 'If we want to have the strength of balance sheet to be able to take advantage of opportunities, both domestically and offshore ... if we want to be able to compete with the firepower of the world banks, when this situation settles down, we need to take a look at the restriction of the structure of the industry,' Mr Hartzer said. The federal government recently renewed an 18-year-old policy banning the big four banks from merging with each other, to preserve competition. But there have been calls for an end to the policy, which critics in the industry and outside say stunts the growth of Australia's top four banks: ANZ, National Australia Bank , Commonwealth Bank of Australia and Westpac Banking Corp . ANZ, the third largest bank, has for now concentrated on expanding in Asia, and Hartzer said opportunities in the region remained plentiful and would not be much affected by the current global credit turmoil. 'The relative amount of investment we need to make certainly is not so dramatic to be hugely affected by what is going on. We have to be a bit more cautious from an inorganic perspective, but from an organic perspective there is still plenty of opportunity, and we are going after it,' Mr Hartzer said. ANZ prepares for rate cutMr Hartzer said the bank intends to pass on as much of an expected official rate cut as it can, given the current level of wholesale funding costs. 'We intend to pass on what we can,' Mr Hartzer said. The Reserve Bank of Australia is next Tuesday expected to lower the official seven per cent cash rate, perhaps by up to half a percentage point. Mr Hartzer said that the cost of funding for banks had escalated last week to 100 basis points above the 90-day bank bill and on Thursday was standing at 70 basis points over. 'Banks have lost so much faith in each that the interest rate spread banks are seeking to lend to each other is at a near all-time high,' he told an American Chamber of Commerce in Australia function in Melbourne. Mr Hartzer said there was 'unbelievable fear in offshore markets' related to credit, which had made it difficult for the bank to source short term funding. If the difficulties continued, it would flow on to credit lending in Australia. Mr Hartzer said the Australian economy was in good shape. However, due to the nation's large current account deficit - which stood at $12.774 billion in the June quarter - Australian banks have to borrow significant amounts of funds offshore. On the issue of people management, Mr Hartzer said it was important to 'make sure you have the right people in the right roles and if you don't, make the tough decisions, now.' Asked later by journalists if ANZ was bidding for Suncorp-Metway Ltd, Mr Hartzer said it would not comment on market speculation. 
