HOME owners are likely to miss out on half the interest rate cut expected to be announced by the Reserve Bank today. The Reserve Bank is expected to cut rates by 0.5 percentage points this morning. But the banks are likely to pass on only half such a cut, giving a person with an average $300,000 loan just $50 of a $100 monthly interest reduction. The five major banks are being squeezed by the global credit crunch, which is sending the cost of short-term borrowing through the roof. The crunch saw European stock markets dive soon after they opened last night. The Australian stock exchange fell by more than 3 per cent yesterday and the dollar fell below US75c for the first time in two years. Asian markets also slumped badly, despite the US Congress passing the $US700 billion Wall Street bailout deal at the weekend. A cut of 0.25 percentage points by banks would mean a $52 monthly cut on a $300,000 mortgage, and $69 on a $400,000 loan. The major banks - Commonwealth, Westpac, NAB, ANZ and St George Bank - have suggested they are not in a position to pass on the full benefit of a cut because they are being burned in wholesale money markets. Australian Prudential Regulation Authority data show that the country's top five banks had lent almost $600 billion to home buyers at the end of August.That means if the banks don't pass on 0.25 percentage points, they will keep $1.5 billion in interest revenue. Treasurer Wayne Swan said last night that once the markets settled, competition should force the banks to bring their rates more into line with the official rate. The hit to stock markets may put the Reserve under added pressure to slash rates by more than the predicted 0.5 percentage points. The last time the RBA slashed rates by 0.5 percentage points was in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the US. But it also resorted to full 1 percentage point cuts to rejuvenate the economy during the last recession in 1991. 'When conditions normalise, we also expect banks to pass on any relief promptly,' Mr Swan said. Most analysts expect the Reserve Bank board to adopt a more conservative strategy when it meets today. Frank Lopez, an analyst with financial research group Cannex, said it would be irresponsible for the banks to pass on a full cut. 'By trying to appease the consumer, there is a danger posed to the existence of the banks themselves,' he said. 'It has become difficult for them to borrow. Since the last rate cut there has been a lot of turmoil, with several banks having to be rescued.' NAB head of economics Jeff Oughton said 'banks are already taking a haircut'. 'If you look at banks' share prices over the past month, which is a barometer of where they are heading, you will see they have taken quite a hit,' he said. 'So both shareholders and customers are affected.' ANZ chief economist Saul Eslake warned that if the RBA cut rates by just 0.25 points, mortgage-holders would be likely to see their repayments unchanged. Mr Eslake said there was a slim chance of a cut greater than 0.5 percentage points. A political storm is brewing over the response of the banking industry because some financial institutions that rely more on deposits to finance their lending, such as Commonwealth Bank and Bendigo Bank, may be under less funding pressure than some of their rivals. Commonwealth, which with about $180 billion in home loans is the country's biggest lender, is likely to retain about $440 million in gross revenue. NAB, Westpac and ANZ would keep about $300 million each, while St George would keep $125 million. 
