Australian banks' borrowing costs fell to the lowest since before the Lehman Brothers collapse, according to a gauge measuring funding availability and the outlook for central bank interest rates.Banks were charging each other 57 basis points more for three-month loans than the overnight indexed swap rate in Sydney, narrowing from 75 points on Oct. 17. The gap has averaged 44 points this year. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.''We're seeing the worst of the seizure in money markets starting to come to an end,'' said Warren Hogan, head of economics at ANZ Bank. ''The government guarantees that have been announced globally are having an effect in the market.''South Korea will pour as much as $US130 billion ($188 billion) into its banking industry to unlock lending, joining governments in the US, Europe, Japan and Australia in shoring up banks to avoid financial gridlock. Interbank lending evaporated after Lehman filed for bankruptcy Sept. 15, shattering confidence and sending corporate borrowing costs to record levels.Pakistan, perceived as the world's riskiest borrower, is considering seeking the help of the International Monetary Fund to avoid default on its debt obligations. The country may need as much as $US6 billion to shore up foreign-currency reserves after they dwindled more than 74% in the past year to about $US4.3 billion, said Shaukat Tarin, financial adviser to the prime minister, in an interview yesterday. Pakistan has $US3 billion in debt servicing costs in the coming year.Subprime collapseInterbank lending rates jumped this year as banks hoarded cash after the US subprime market collapsed, prompting writedowns and losses exceeding $US660 billion worldwide. Funding costs eased last week after Prime Minister Kevin Rudd guaranteed bank deposits and the Bank of Japan joined European central banks in offering unlimited US currency.The cost of borrowing dollars in London fell Oct. 17, capping the first weekly decline since July, after central banks around the world pumped unprecedented amounts of cash into money markets and governments backed loans.The London interbank offered rate, or Libor, that banks charge each other for three-month loans in dollars dropped for a fifth day on Friday, sliding 8 basis points to 4.42%, the British Bankers' Association said.Australian corporate bond risk declined, credit-default swaps show. The Markit iTraxx Australia index, used by traders to speculate on changes in credit quality, was quoted 25 basis points lower at 220 in Sydney, down from 245 late on Oct. 17, according to Citigroup Inc.
