AUSTRALIA'S banks have been the main beneficiaries of the $63 billion Future Fund, which has managed to preserve its value while superannuation savings have crashed with the sharemarket.The Finance Minister, Lindsay Tanner, suggested in Parliament yesterday that the fund's board thought the sharemarket was over-valued late last year and steered clear of shares - 'a very sound decision'. Instead, it kept the bulk of its investments in cash with major banks - guaranteeing them a relatively cheap source of funding amid the credit turmoil.In its annual report, released yesterday, the fund revealed its best-paid employee took home $960,000 last year, including a $410,000 bonus - small beer compared with top finance salaries, but well above the $490,000 of the Treasury Secretary, Ken Henry. A spokesman could not say if the top salary went to the fund's general manager, Paul Costello.The fund was up 1.5 per cent for 2007-08, although in the three months to the end of September this year it lost 1.8 per cent. This means it is down just 0.2 per cent since it began full operation at the beginning of July last year.Superannuation funds have not had such luck. All are down and some have lost more than 15 per cent in the past year.While the Future Fund, a government vehicle established to pay public servant retirement liabilities, has only invested 10 per cent in Australian shares, about 55 per cent of all superannuation funds are in the sharemarket, according to Rainmaker Information. More than half of the Future Fund's $63 billion is sitting in cash with Australia's banks, and domestic subsidiaries of foreign banks. The Commonwealth Bank holds the most, with $7.8 billion, followed by Westpac, National Australia Bank, and ANZ.The fund gave them a welcome and relatively cheap source of money as the cost of borrowing overseas has soared.The chief executive of the Investment and Financial Services Association, Richard Gilbert, said mortgage rates may have been higher had the banks not been holding the Future Fund's cash. 'It has helped them write more mortgages,' Mr Gilbert said. The Commonwealth, Australia's biggest lender, yesterday joined rivals National Australia Bank and ANZ in lowering interest rates, saying it would cut its standard variable rate 0.21 percentage points to 8.32 per cent. The last of the 'big four' banks, Westpac, is expected to follow suit today. It means they are passing on all of the one percentage point cut sanctioned by the Reserve Bank two weeks ago.
