WELLINGTON, Oct 21 (Reuters) - Inflation in New Zealand hit its highest annual rate in 18 years in the third quarter, but the central bank is still expected to cut interest rates as much as 1 percentage point this week to offset recession and the impact of the global financial crisis. The consumer price index (CPI) rose 1.5 percent in the three months to Sept. 30 to stand 5.1 percent higher than on a year ago, data showed on Tuesday. Economists in a Reuters poll had forecast consumer prices would rise 1.5 percent from the April-June quarter and the annual rate by 5.1 percent. The central bank forecast a quarterly rise of 1.3 percent. 'Looking ahead, inflation is vastly improved given the deteriorating economy and falling commodity prices, so today's data won't get in the way of an aggressive easing from the RBNZ on Thursday,' said Khoon Goh, senior economist at ANZ-National Bank. The New Zealand dollar slipped to around $0.6195/02 from around $0.6204/12 before the data. The yield on the December bank bill futures contract slipped to 6.35 percent from 6.37 before the announcement. The rise in the inflation rate to its highest level since June 1990 was driven by high food and fuel prices, and increases in local property taxes. The central bank is required to keep inflation within a 1-3 percent target range over the medium term and it has forecast inflation will average 4.9 percent in the second half of 2008. However, inflation pressures are expected to ease rapidly next year with the New Zealand economy in recession and global growth expected to slow in the aftermath of the credit crisis. In a recent Reuters poll, 12 of 16 economists expected the central bank to cut rates by as much as 100 basis points when it announces its rate review on Thursday, as it brings forward its easing cycle to give the economy a shot in the arm. New Zealand's economy contracted in the first half of the year, hit by drought and weak consumer spending. A string of data since then suggests it shrank again in the third quarter, although many forecasters have been picking a return to slow growth by the end of the year. Non-tradables inflation, a key measure of domestic inflation closely watched by the central bank, was 1.3 percent for the quarter and 4.1 percent for the year through September, its highest level since June 2007. Analysts also suggest that a slowdown in the global economy, with lower commodity prices, will add further downward pressure to inflation. A quarterly business survey from the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research two weeks ago showed a net 28 percent of respondents expected to increase prices in the fourth quarter, down from 49 percent in the previous survey. (Reporting by Gyles Beckford)copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
