 PM Stock markets have continued to tumble despite a co-ordinated move by central banks across the world to cut their key interest rates in an attempt to stave off an economic meltdown. Central banks in the US, Europe, Britain, Switzerland, Canada, Sweden, Hong Kong and China cut their key lending rates in unison on Wednesday but the unprecedented move appeared to have little impact and banks remained nervous about lending between each other for fear of not being able to recover loans. Share prices in Asia extended their losses in early trading on Thursday, with Japan's benchmark Nikkei falling 0.38 per cent a day after its biggest loss in 20 years. Stocks in Australia and New Zealand were also lower, tracking Wall Street's overnight drop. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied 150 points after the rate cut announcement but dropped sharply in the last half hour of trading to close more than 200 points or 2.2 per cent lower. The US Federal Reserve's key federal funds lending rate now stands at 1.5 per cent, while its emergency lending rate to banks was also cut by half a percentage point, to 1.75 per cent. 'The pace of economic activity has slowed markedly in recent months,' the Fed said as it announced the move, ahead of its scheduled meeting on October 29. 'Moreover, the intensification of financial market turmoil is likely to exert additional restraint on spending, partly by further reducing the ability of households and businesses to obtain credit.' As the Federal Reserve cut its rates, the Bank of England reduced its key interest rate to 4.5 per cent and the European Central Bank dropped its key rate to 3.75 per cent. The Federal Reserve also announced on Wednesday that it was providing $37.8bn cash injection into troubled insurance giant AIG, which was nationalised last month. The bank said it had used up an $85bn loan facility made available to AIG last month when the government took a controlling stake in the firm, considering it too big to fail. 'Good news' China also cut interest rates and lowered its banks' required reserves as part of the co-ordinated global effort. It is the first time that the People's Bank of China has announced a change in interest rates at the same time as other central banks. Li Zhikun, a senior economist at China Jianyin Investment Securities in Beijing, hailed the move by the central banks. 'It's good news. I think global central banks realised that they have to orchestrate their moves as earlier individual steps didn't give the markets the lift they were looking for,' Li said. The global interest rate cuts are intended to stimulate the economy by encouraging consumers and businesses to spend more readily on lines of credit, such as mortgages and credit cards. The concerted effort to increase confidence in the faltering global economy comes after US politicians passed an unprecedented $700bn bailout package to shore up its ailing financial sector. Analysts have predicted that the US economy will contract in the final quarter of this year and the first quarter of next year, meeting the definition of a recession. On Wednesday, the British government announced plans to partially nationalise the country's major banks, in a package using up to $87.5bn of taxpayers' money. The British treasury said that Abbey, Barclays, HBOS, HSBC, Lloyds TSB, Nationwide Building Society, Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered have signed up for its so-called recapitalisation scheme.Aljazeera.net 2003 - 2008 Provided by Syndigate.info an Albawaba.com company 
