   Sulaman Chaudhry and Andy Cole send: Quickly recapping last week&amp;#8217;s news:   Circuit City (CC) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on Monday.  The Treasury boosted its aid for AIG to $150 billion after the insurance giant posted a $24.5 billion dollar loss in Q3.  DHL is cutting 9,500 US jobs.  Deutsche Bank cut its price target on General Motors (GM) to $0, which is probably the best piece of fundamental analysis on GM that weve seen in awhile.  McDonalds (MCD) continues to outperform as same-store sales rose 8.2% from a year ago.  The IBD/TIPP Consumer Confidence gauge was up 24% for the month of November. The presidential election, falling gas prices, and the so-called rescue plans are said to be the catalysts.  Toll Brothers (TOL) posted a 41% loss of revenue for Q4, above analyst extremely conservative estimates.  Hank Paulson says the Treasury wont buy banks bad mortgage assets, which contradicts pretty much everything he said about a month ago.  Intel (INTC) slashed its Q4 revenue target citing weaker demand. They also plan on cutting 1,800 jobs.  Best Buy (BBY) cut its full year sales and EPS saying that its the worst retail climate ever.  The IDC cut its outlook on tech spending from 5.9% to 2.6%.  Initial jobless claims rose 32,000 to 516,000, its worst reading since 1982.  Wal-Mart (WMT) topped EPS estimates, but guided lower.  Retail sales plunged 2.8% while J.C. Penny (JCP) and Abercrombie &amp;#038; Fitch (ANF) both cut holiday quarter guidance.  Nokia (NOK) cut its Q4 sales forecasts citing economic woes.  Sun Microsystems (JAVA) is cutting 15-18% of its workforce.  Citigroup (C) is planning on cutting 10,000 members of its global workforce.  Hartford Financial (HIG) is asking for government aid.  Freddie Mac (FRE) lost $25.3 billion last quarter, necessitating an immediate $13.8 billion in loans from the Fed.  Its pretty much more of the same from a fundamental view.   Last Fridays trading was a bit unexpected to say the least, but you have to take what the market gives you, and in this case, weve been given quite a bit of uncertainty. The fundamentals have certainly not changed for the better, but from a technical standpoint, we are still somewhat bullish based on Thursdays big volume day. We could still see a rally from here, but a close below 850, would be very bearish, so keep that in mind.   The Financial ETF (XLF) made new lows last week as we mentioned in the last post. Because the financials have lead the market over the past few months, this does leave us concerned about the short-term relative upside left in this market. However, the XLF is oversold and Thursdays big volume day was bullish from a technical perspective, but we need to see a follow through to the upside on Monday.  The Homebuilder ETF (XHB) is looking fairly similar to the XLF currently. Again, though, we need to see a bullish follow through on Monday. Otherwise, we may see more immediate downside.     Subscribe to our feed using your favorite service:   ...
