Trick or treat? It looks like bank executives will be knocking on taxpayers doors to cash in IOUs. The Wall Street Journal has determined that financial institution executives are supposed to cash in on more than $40 billion for their work in 2008. The chances they cash in those IOUs this year are slim to none due to the debt banks have incurred from the economic downturn. However, over time the federal government's injections in these institutions will most likely go toward paying these IOUs off.IOUs cover salaries, employee pensions, deferred compensation and of course the widely debated and coveted Wall Street bonuses. The Journal has come up with IOU figures "by looking at an amount they report as deferred tax assets for "deferred compensation" or "employee benefits and compensation." Here are some rough executive IOU figures the report pinned down: $11.8 billion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.&amp;nbsp;$8.5 billion or more at J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. including compensation at Washington Mutual Inc. and $1.7 billion for employee compensation at Bear Stearns Cos. &amp;nbsp;$10 billion to $12 billion at Morgan Stanley. $5 billion at Citigroup Inc. &amp;nbsp;Bank of America Corp. doesn't report, but Merril Lynch &amp; Co. looks like it primarily funded its own $2.2 billion deferred-pay obligation. Obviously, the idea of taxpayers dolling out billions to big bank executives after bailing out institutions has many opponents.  As Dealscape's George White pointed out, there are a parade of lawmakers in the anti-bonus bandwagon, including Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, Barney Frank, Henry Waxman and Dennis Kucinich, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Sen. Jim Webb, Sen. Olympia Snowe and&amp;nbsp; New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo. Any new regulations lawmakers come up with could deter making future IOU debts more transparent or even punch a hole in golden parachutes, but in the meantime it looks like the taxpayers will be handing out the goody bags to cover these compensation packages. - Maria Woehr 
