A disastrous week on Wall Street finished with a nice lift as the Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 494.13 points to close at 8,046.42 on Friday, somewhat salvaging the nearly 950 points lost for the first four days of the week. The Street appeared to have been positive about new blood in the Treasury Department as reports surfaced Friday that New York Federal Reserve President Timothy Geithner may take over for Henry Paulson once President-elect Barack Obama takes residence at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. American International Group Inc. may take comfort in Geithner's possible appointment, having spent many a long nights at the table with him in the structuring of its bailout. AIG shareholders had another reason to celebrate as Japan's Nihon Keizai Shimbum reported on Thursday that a consortium led by sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corp. is in negotiations to acquire up to a 49% in AIG's American Life Insurance Co. business for anywhere between $5 billion and $11 billion, which should help chip away at the Fed's $150 billion loan. AIG shares gained 11.11% to close at $1.60 on Friday. Despite the continued squeeze on capital markets, the auction block is not yet barren. Share of fast-food chain Cosi Inc. climbed 5% to 42 cents per share on news that its board formed a special committee and hired North Point Advisors to explore strategic alternatives.Not all was rosy among Deal Stocks. Hedge fund Elliott Associates LP on Friday dropped its $7.50 per share tender offer for Epicor Software Corp., saying it was "astounded and disappointed" as the target's board continued to recommend shareholders reject a deal. Epicor's stock plummeted 15.04% to close at $3.05 per share. What was Epicor thinking, turning down a fully financed deal amid these gloomy markets? And when you talk about gloomy markets, you can't leave out Citigroup Inc. Battered Citi continued its skid, sinking 19.96% to close at $3.77 per share. The bank's board reportedly met Friday amid signs that directors are considering selling all or part of it, according to various media reports. - Michael Rudnick
