            Forbes/Schaeffer's Options ReportWEEK OF Monday, November 03, 2008     please forward this to a friend!     Contents:   Option Idea Of The Week Stocks With Notable Option Activity Weekly Contrarian Highest Option Volume Highest Volume Compared To Average Volume Dissecting The Sectors      IN THE SPOTLIGHT:  Biovail (BVF)  Merck (MRK)   EMC Corp. (EMC)  Insurance  Gold  Large-Cap Technology   SPECIAL OFFER       BERNIE SCHAEFFER'S OPTION ADVISOR - MULTIPLE WAYS TO PROFITBy giving you more than one way to earn, you can pick the investment strategy that fits your personality and investment profile. Subscribe today and you'll also get a complimentary online copy of my Crash Course in Top Gun Trading Techniques, just click here.     Option Idea of the Week: Biovail (BVF)Biovail (BVF) Like most of Wall Street, the pharmaceutical sector has been impotent against the heavy selling pressure plaguing the broader market during the past few months. A slowdown in the economy and an influx of generic drugs has helped push this sector lower. Specifically, the AMEX Pharmaceuticals Index (DRG) has plunged more than 21% so far in 2008, breaking below long-term support in the 280 region and pulling its 10-week and 20-week moving averages into a bearish cross. What's more, while the index has rebounded from its near-term lows in the 230 area, the DRG is now finding staunch resistance in the 270-275 area - a region that marked the index's lows in September 2002. Despite the sector's weak performance, there is still some optimism lingering in its sentiment backdrop. The composite Schaeffer's put/call open interest ratio (SOIR) for DRG components rests at 0.31, in the lower half of its annual range. Meanwhile, Zacks.com reports that only 6.6% of analysts covering DRG stocks rate them a &amp;quot;sell,&amp;quot; despite the poor technical performance. This configuration leaves the sector vulnerable to potential downgrades, or an unwinding of lingering optimism from options traders, as the group stumbles lower.  Digging into the pharmaceutical sector, we find several potential candidates that appear primed for bearish trading opportunities. One stock that has performed particularly poorly is Biovail (BVF). As you might suspect, the company develops, manufactures, and distributes pharmaceutical products. BVF also provides a wide range of services - from research and development, clinical testing and regulatory filings, to full-scale manufacturing. Technically speaking, the stock has been in a steep decline since July 2007, falling more than 68% from its highs near $26.50 per share. The equity is currently struggling to hold onto support at the 8-9 level, as it battles resistance at its descending 10-week and 20-week moving averages.   Despite this weak performance in the shares, options players are betting on a rebound. The SOIR, which compares put open interest against call open interest among options that expire in less than 3 months, stands at 0.18. This low reading indicates that call open interest more than quintuples put open interest among near-term options. What's more, this ratio is lower than 98% of all those taken during the past year, indicating that options traders have been more optimistic only 2% of the time in the prior 52 weeks.  The International Securities Exchange (ISE) and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) have also reported a preference for call trading. During the past 10 trading days, the exchanges have reported an average of 18 calls purchased to open for every put. This ratio of calls to puts is higher than 76% of all those taken during the past year, underscoring the bullish sentiment we saw in the stock's SOIR.  Finally, Wall Street remains mixed on the shares. According to Zacks, the stock has earned 3 &amp;quot;buys,&amp;quot; 3 &amp;quot;holds,&amp;quot; and 1 &amp;quot;sell&amp;quot; rating. That said, one would have expected to see more pessimism from this group, and given BVF's poor technical performance, we could see potential downgrades exacerbate the stock's downward momentum.  To take advantage of the stock's downtrend, options players should consider an in-the-money (10 strike) intermediate-term put option  the January 2009 put (premium is 23% of the stock price) or April put (premium is 29% of the stock price)  to take advantage of this opportunity that is attractive from our Expectational Analysis methodology perspective. SPECIAL OFFER       WHAT'S UP WITH CANADIAN ROYALTY TRUSTS?These trusts that produce a steady stream of royalties from natural gas and oil production took a hit lastyear when the Canadian government proposed taking away their tax-advantaged status. They've mostly recovered, but now there's a bill in the U.S. Congress that would strip their 15% dividend tax rate. Should you buy them now? And if so in which kind of account should you hold them? Click here for advice from Forbes fixed-income expert Richard Lehmann. Click here to start profiting from Richard's Canadian trust picks today! Just click here.     Stocks with Notable Option Activity for the Week Ending November 03, 2008 Merck (MRK)  Another pharmaceutical company in trouble is Merck (MRK). This member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average has produced some of the most well-known drugs in the industry, including Propecia, Singulair, Vioxx, and Zocor. Despite the company's notoriety, the security has been trapped in a downtrend under its 10-week and 20-week moving averages since January. During this time frame, MRK has plunged more than 47%, tagging a fresh multi-year low in early October. But, while the shares have since rebounded from these lows, MRK continues to be capped by its 10-week moving average. This trendline has taken up residence in the 30-31 region, an area that has provided stiff short-term resistance for the equity since mid-October. Investors remain defiantly bullish toward MRK, however. The stock's SOIR of 0.87 indicates that calls outnumber puts among near-term options. Furthermore, this ratio ranks in the 39th percentile of its annual range, indicating a decidedly bullish slant from this speculative group. Data from the ISE and CBOE lend credence to this optimistic reading, as calls bought to open have outnumbered puts purchased on their exchanges by a ratio of more than 2.5-to-1 during the past 10 trading sessions. This ratio also ranks above 70% of all those taken during the past year. One other concern is a distinct lack of &amp;quot;sell&amp;quot; ratings on the shares from Wall Street analysts. According to Zacks.com, MRK has garnered 5 &amp;quot;buy&amp;quot; or better ratings, and 7 &amp;quot;holds.&amp;quot; With the shares in such a steep decline, we could see these holdouts shaken lose in the form of downgrades, thus increasing selling pressure.  EMC Corp. (EMC) EMC Corp. (EMC) was the target of both bullish and bearish options speculators Thursday. More specifically, the stock saw roughly 58,500 puts change hands  nearly 6 times its average daily put volume of fewer than 21,000 contracts. More impressive, however, the stock saw almost 49,000 calls cross the tape yesterday  more than quadrupling its average daily call volume of nearly 12,000 contracts.  Further demonstrating that calls have been the option of choice lately is the stock's descending Schaeffer's put/call open interest ratio (SOIR). This ratio is currently docked at 0.37, indicating that calls more than double their put opponents among options slated to expire within 3 months. What's more, the SOIR has backpedaled to an annual ranking of 2%, suggesting that short-term options players have been more confident in EMC's prospects only 2% of the time during the past year.  So, why last week's flurry in the options arena? Investors could've been responding to news that Pershing Square Capital Management yesterday took a 39.9-million-share stake in EMC, boosting its stake in the firm to roughly 2%, according to Reuters.  As a result of Pershing's confidence, the shares of EMC rallied more than 7% to close at $11.46 on Thursday. In addition, the security's recent journey higher pushed it through double-barreled resistance from its 20-day and 30-day moving averages for the first time since late August. Meanwhile, emulating the optimism among options traders is the sentiment among the brokerage bunch. According to Zacks, EMC boasts an impressive 12 &amp;quot;strong buy&amp;quot; and 4 &amp;quot;buy&amp;quot; ratings, compared to only 4 &amp;quot;holds&amp;quot; and no &amp;quot;sells.&amp;quot;  In conclusion, while investors are likely cheering the stock's near-term rebound, the technical hurdles may not be over just yet. Should the equity extend its voyage into the black, it could face a speed bump in the 13.50-14.50 region, which acted as a foothold from mid-July into September. Furthermore, a jolt from resistance could spook the bulls; a reversal in sentiment in the options arena, or a fresh bout of downgrades, could place additional selling pressure on the equity. However, with EMC currently dawdling in the 11.50 neighborhood, investors may have some time before the security battles potential resistance.  SPECIAL OFFER       SLAM DUNK INVESTING IN OILCurtis Hesler, editor of Professional Timing Service, recommended Enerplus Resources (ERF) at $17. It's now $25, and still pays a 4% dividend. He now believes that there are four major opportunities--crude oil, gold, stock, and bonds--that will make and break millionaires during the next 24 months. Click the link below or copy and paste it into your web browser for three more energy stocks set to double in his new special report, Oil: Slam Dunk Investing For Income &amp;amp; Capital Gains. just click here.     Weekly Contrarian Will TAP Leave You Crying in Your Beer?Posted: 11/3/2008 10:43:38 AMBarron's&amp;quot;A Heady Brew at Molson Coors&amp;quot;Published: 11/3/2008 Brief Summary: This week, Barron's investigates the bullish potential of brewing giant Molson Coors Brewing (TAP: sentiment, chart, options) . The article notes that sales of the company's...
