http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/311ee480-ae95-11dd-b621-000077b07658.htmlBear market: Time to buy?By John Authers Published: November 9 2008 20:21   Last updated: November 9 2008 20:21As world stock markets plunged last month, investors were able to take heart from the latest words of Warren Buffett: he announced he was buying stocks. A simple rule dictates my buying: be fearful when others are greedy, and be greedy when others are fearful, proclaimed the man known as the Sage of Omaha. And most certainly, fear is now widespread, gripping even seasoned investors.Nobody could disagree. But the extreme fear that was in evidence did not guarantee that stocks had hit a bottom. Mr Buffett acknowledged as much in his column for The New York Times and advised investors not even to try to time the market. His point was that stocks were cheap, so people should not take the risk of waiting.I havent the faintest idea as to whether stocks will be higher or lower a month  or a year  from now, he wrote. What is likely, however, is that the market will move higher, perhaps substantially so, well before either sentiment or the economy turns up. So if you wait for the robins, spring will be over.But is there a way of telling when equities might have hit bottom? Certainly, when fear overcomes greed to this extent, attempts to assess a stocks value according to fundamental measures go out of the window. Instead, all people have to go on is history. Yet precedents as extreme as last months Black October are few. Only four periods in the past 100 years (two of them during the 1930s) match the 46 per cent slide since the Standard &amp; Poors 500, the worlds most widely tracked index, reached an all-time high in October last year.In the weeks since its latest extreme sell-off, the S&amp;P regained as much as 20 per cent at one point but continues to trade in a volatile range. Almost all other markets worldwide have displayed similar patterns, shedding even more than the US and rebounding more before lapsing into a range.Nobody thinks that anything like normality has been restored; the weeks since then have included the biggest crash in history for the foreign exchange market and further acute difficulties for the credit market. Historical pointers look ominous too: after the crash of 1929, anybody buying when the market started to stabilise would have lost more than three-quarters of their money over the next two years.But some are beginning to set aside such fears. For an unparalleled 20 years, global equities, especially US equities, have been overpriced, Jeremy Grantham, founder of the Grantham Mayo Otterloo fund management group in Boston and for years a voice that counselled caution, wrote late last month. Now, finally, they are cheap and likely to get cheaper. Likely, I believe, to set up a once-in-a-lifetime investing opportunity (or maybe twice in a long career).He is only starting to buy, however, and has not deployed all the cash he has available. Buying now makes sense for those truly in it for the long term; the bottom may still be ahead.When markets experience dislocations as extreme as Black October, as Mr Buffett implies, what is important is the mass psychology reflected in the markets moves.Indeed, there are ways to assess investor psychology. The Chicago Board Options Exchanges Vix index, for instance, measures anxiety from how much investors in options are prepared to pay to protect against future falls in the S&amp;P 500. This measure was not around during previous great bear markets but the spike in volatility in recent years took it to all-time highs. When sentiment becomes this extreme, it is fair to hope that stocks have become too cheap, creating bargains once confidence returns.Looking instead at realised volatility, or the extent to which stocks vary on a monthly basis, the S&amp;P last month was as volatile as it had been at any time since 1929, except October 1987. All previous spikes in volatility returned swiftly to calm. Yet another measure comes from US Treasury bills, short-term loans to the US government that are arguably the safest investments in existence. When T-bill yields fall, investors are prepared to pay more for that safety. At the worst of the recent panic, T-bill yields reached 0.02 per cent, their lowest since 1940. They have barely recovered. Again, such an extreme desire for security might imply that the market cannot fall much further and is ready to swing in the other direction.A further measure, comparing the yields available on the highest-rated  triple-A  bonds with bonds of only slightly lower quality once again shows the desire for safety leaping to extremes not seen since the 1930s.A popular model  although academics suggest that it is flawed  compares the yields on stocks to the yields on bonds. The model does have a kernel of common sense. When bond yields are very low, as they are now, that could signal that it makes sense to pay more for stocks, in search of a higher return.There is therefore a respectable case to be made that in the past few weeks fear has conquered greed to an extent that goes beyond the rational. The return of stability in due course creates the opportunity for a big rally. But this may merely be a bear market rally. In the past two weeks, the S&amp;P both staged its 20 per cent revival and then gave up half of it. That is not surprising  the bear market after 1929 was punctuated by several rallies of 20 per cent or more.A market bottom cannot hold if stocks remain too expensive, so long-term measures of valuation have proved to be great indicators of bear market tops and bottoms. One suggested in the 1930s by Benjamin Graham, an investment theorist, looks at cyclical price/earnings ratios, where the price of a stock is compared with the average of the earnings per share it has produced over the previous 10 years. This controls for the effect of the profit cycle, which otherwise would mean that year-by-year multiples tended to be higher when profits were at the low point of the cycle and lower when profits were high.This measure has been revived by Yale Universitys Robert Shiller, who gained fame for publishing Irrational Exuberance, in which he warned that stocks were badly overvalued, shortly before the internet bubble burst in 2000. Enhancing that fame in recent years have been his indices showing that another bubble, in US housing, was about to burst. Shiller p/e multiples reached their greatest extremes in 1929 and 2000, two market tops that were followed by bear markets. In October 1987 they peaked at a much lower level, giving an important clue that the market break of that year would prove to be less significant. Further, the lows have coincided with long-term market bottoms. There is also a tendency to revert to the mean over long periods.Significantly, the cyclical p/e now suggests that stocks are slightly cheaper than their long-term average, for the first time since 1991. That in turn implies that those who can afford to wait a number of years for a pay-off should start to feed money into the stock market.A variation on this theme is to look at very long-running trends. There are various ways of doing this, but Mr Granthams simple model holds that over time, stocks rise by inflation plus 2 per cent. This produces an upward trend line, to which stocks will eventually revert. On this basis, stocks have recently snapped back to fair value, having been wildly overpriced. As with the cyclical p/e model, this suggests that the stock market had been overvalued since 1991.Again this is encouraging, but the news has to come with the caveat that markets are prone to overshoot and become too cheap after prolonged periods when they have been too expensive. Hence, both these measures are consistent with stocks falling much lower before they find a bottom, even though they are currently fairly priced.A further measure that has signalled market tops and bottoms over the years is known as q. This refers to the ratio of the value of a company to its net worth  the value of the equity on its balance sheet. Again, over time, the market value of a company will tend to converge on this measure. Again, after being overvalued for more than a decade, stocks now appear to be at about fair value according to q.The final, critical element in the equation concerns the future. How bad will this recession be? Usually, market bottoms are related to recessions, with markets generally beginning to recover when the economy is on the floor and some months before a broader upturn. For those who believe this recession will end in the early months of next year, therefore, there appears to be an argument to buy stocks now, as they already implicitly discount a long and severe recession. Tim Bond, of Barclays Capital, suggests that equities might present the buying opportunity of a generation. According to Barclays model of implied economic forecasts from credit spreads, the market is discounting as much as a 15 per cent decline in real gross domestic product for the US next year. By way of comparison, the average annualised GDP contraction during the Depression was 14.1 per cent and the worst single year, 1932, saw a contraction of 23 per cent.If the final scenario is any better than this  with the political response to this recession very different as lessons of the 1930s have been learnt  stocks could be ready to rise. But Albert Edwards, a strongly bearish equity analyst at Socit Gnrale in London, suggests that this is a mistake. Previously, equity rallies in the depth of recessions were driven not by predictive power but by expanding multiples as interest rates and bond yields collapsed. Bad economic news was good news for valuations.This time, he suggests, the world is dealing with a historic overhang of debt. Interest rates have already been slashed without turning round either the market or the economy. Rather than correlating with bonds, therefore, eq...
