The billionaire Abu Dhabi sheikh who bought football club Manchester City two months ago was today set to pump up to 5 billion into Barclays.The bank unveiled Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, a member of the country's royal family, as a major investor in plans to raise up to 7.3 billion to strengthen its finances.Two other existing Middle East investors - the Qatari Investment Authority and Challenger, which represents Qatar's royal family - are also putting up more funds. advertisement The trio could own nearly a third of the bank between them following the capital-raising exercise, with Al Nahyan's stake in Barclays a potential 16.3%.The sheikh's billions helped lure Brazilian star Robinho to the Premiership football club for a British record 32.5 million in the summer.Now Barclays hopes his wealth will help it meet the tougher capital requirements called for by the Financial Services Authority to enable banks to withstand financial turmoil.The Middle East cash helps Barclays shore up its finances without using public funds - meaning that the bank will be able to pay dividends to its shareholders, unlike Royal Bank of Scotland and Halifax Bank of Scotland.The cash will boost its core tier one ratio - a key measure of capital strength - to 7.6% from 6.3% in July, the bank said. It follows a 4.5 billion fundraising exercise earlier this year.Chief executive John Varley said: 'Today's capital raising provides certainty and speed of execution.' The bank chief said the growing presence of Middle Eastern investors reflected the 'significant shift' in the availability of capital and economic power over the past five years.Mr Varley called the move - which has to be approved by shareholders - a 'forward-looking and progressive approach to managing the share register'. He said it put Barclays among the strongest banks in the world in capital terms. 'We have what we need,' he added. In a trading update alongside the capital raising, Barclays added that third quarter pre-tax profits were 'slightly ahead' of the previous year.The bank, which bought the US investment banking arm of collapsed Lehman Brothers last month, saw credit market writedowns of 1.2 billion but these were mostly offset by gains elsewhere. 'The financial market environment has continued to be as challenging as any that we have experienced. 'Against this backdrop, we have stayed close to our customers and clients, managed our risks carefully, and taken advantage of opportunities to progress our strategy,' Mr Varley said. But shares in the bank fell 9% amid City concerns about the cost of the financing terms struck with the Middle Eastern investors.Hargreaves Lansdown equities analyst Keith Bowman added: 'The road ahead still looks long and steep. A relatively deep global recession could require further capital raising, with banks on this occasion going into a downturn in relatively poor shape.' 
