Gordon Brown is due to urge Gulf states to do more to stabilise oil prices as he kicks off a visit to the region.  The Prime Minister will stress that the countries must maintain production levels to avoid 'spikes' in prices like those which contributed to the recent global financial turmoil.  He will also insist they have a duty to use some of their massive oil wealth to help ease the impact of the credit crunch on the world economy.  Mr Brown's four-day tour comes amid fears that the International Monetary Fund's 155 billion reserves may not be enough for future bail-outs of struggling states.  The fund has already allocated about 18.6 billion in emergency loans to Iceland, Hungary and Ukraine, and Pakistan has signalled it may request aid in the next fortnight.  While Europe and the US face recession, Opec members are estimated to have more than 311 billion in foreign exchange reserves stashed away.  The growing importance of Middle East capital was emphasised on Friday when it emerged that Barclays raised 7.3 billion from investors in the region to shore up its position.  Mr Brown will be joined for parts of his visit by Business Secretary Lord Mandelson, Energy and Climate Change Secretary Ed Miliband and a delegation of senior executives from UK firms.  Downing Street said the PM would be emphasising the importance of 'transparency and stability' in the oil price, and calling for 'dialogue' between oil consumers and producers.  He will also urge Gulf states to invest in renewable energy sources 'over the longer term', according to a spokesman.  Latest blogs and columns  LEWIS Hamilton has the Formula One crown in his grasp - and I just hope he doesn't blow it this time.  Shuiab Khan column: Things are generally going from bad to worse, so maybe it is time to get back to basics.  Lancashire Telegraph comment: We are separated by 3,000 miles and the wide expanse of the Atlantic Ocean.  UNLESS you're a fight fan, you'll probably have never heard of Peter Buckley.  Jack Straw column: Have I been alone in being underwhelmed by Jonathan Ross' skills?  Lancashire Telegraph comment: The murder of Sophie Lancaster was one of the most sickening crimes ever to occur in East Lancashire.  THERE will be a World Cup clash between Australia and England this weekend - but it has barely earned a mention.  AS quickly as Harry Redknapp signed on as Spurs boss over the weekend, so Tony Adams has been installed as his successor at Portsmouth. And well done Pompey say I!  Lord Greaves column: What on earth are we to make of all the goings on in Corfu?  Margo Grimshaw column: Its difficult to think of how innocent as children we were.  
