From the Fool blog  Ed Bowsher  Published in Company Comment on 3 November 2008  0   comments  Lloyds TSB has revealed more details about its proposed takeover of HBOS, including the name for the enlarged group.  The takeover of HBOS (LSE: HBOS) by Lloyds TSB (LSE: LLOY) took another large step closer to completion today with the issue of more information to shareholders regarding its government-underwritten fundraising. Estimated cost savings has been increased from 1bn to 1.5bn a year and we also discovered the name of the enlarged bank will be Lloyds Banking Group.  While no money was obviously wasted on choosing a new name, just in case we were in any doubt, it clearly illustrates where the power lies in this deal. The proposed management team that was announced last week, with hardly any HBOS representation, also gave us a pretty good steer.  Lloyds reckons it can reduce the cost base of the combined company by around 15%. This has once again raised fears about job cuts. With 140,000 staff across the two businesses, 15% would represent some 20,000 jobs. Its likely to be a few months before we get a better idea of the actual figures, but when the deal was first announced it was feared up to 40,000 jobs could go.   New money to be raised  A meeting of Lloyds shareholders will be held on 19 November to approve the deal. Then shareholders in both companies will get the opportunity to subscribe for new shares via an open offer as part of the governments banking bailout.  7.5bn new HBOS shares are up for grabs and 2.6bn in the case of Lloyds. The price is 113.6p and 173.3p per share respectively and the government will buy any shares not taken up by investors. The government is also investing another 4.5bn in the form of preference shares.  Its going to be very interesting to see how many shareholders take part in this open offer. The larger the governments stake, the harder it will be to dispose of in future and this will hang over the shares. So youd think its in shareholders interest to reduce the governments holding to a more manageable level, say 20% or so.  An open offer is similar to a right issue, which both HBOS and Royal Bank of Scotland (LSE: RBS) used to raise funds earlier this year. The key difference is that in an open offer you cannot sell your rights to buy additional shares. With this open offer, investors can buy additional shares above their basic entitlement, if they so wish.   If no investors are interested then the government could end up owning as much 43.5% of the new company. The open offer process is expected to last until mid-January, after which point the new shares will begin trading.  According to Lloyds TSB the government has said it intends to be a value-oriented shareholder and that it has no intentions or strategic plans concerning the company. In other words, it should be hands off from Gordon Brown although I suspect events could dictate otherwise.  Another interesting fact was also revealed today. If this offer wasnt to go ahead, Lloyds TSB would be required to raise 7bn under the governments bailout package. This is higher than the 5.5bn its required to raise as part of this takeover.  Trading is still difficult  Both Lloyds TSB and HBOS updated us on how theyve fared in the third quarter of this year. As you might expect, the former seems to be doing rather better.  HBOS has taken an additional 700m hit on the value of its investments due to market dislocation. This takes its losses in this regard to 1.8bn for the first nine months. It also saw a large increase in bad debts on its residential loan book, which jumped from 0.7bn for the first six months to 1.25bn for the first nine.  Its on the corporate side though, where HBOS has a heavy exposure to the property and construction sector, where the worst performance has been. Here bad debts have leapt from 0.5bn at the end of June to an astonishing 1.7bn for the first nine months. There has been some comment recently about the lack of proper risk management at HBOS. It was already heavily exposed to property through its residential loan book, so compounding this by lending to property-related companies has clearly hastened its demise.  Lloyds TSB has also seen its bad debt and market dislocation costs rise in the third quarter but not to the extent of HBOS. In fact, using some back of the envelope calculations, HBOS probably made a third-quarter loss similar to the 1bn or so of profit it made in the first six months.  On the same basis, Lloyds looks as if it has roughly broken even in the third quarter after making 0.6bn in the first six months. This contrasts with Barclays (LSE: BARC) which reckons it made slightly more in the first nine months of 2008 than it did in 2007.  Despite the fact both businesses are clearly suffering at the moment, Lloyds still reckons it will be able to pay back the 4.5bn of preference shares issued to the government during 2009. Once this is done, it will be able to resume paying dividends to its shareholders. This is a couple of years earlier than most people expected.  Is it worth buying the shares?  We can only do some basic sums at the moment. Lloyds Banking will have around 16.4bn shares in issue after the open offer is complete. At the current share price of 190p for Lloyds TSB thats a market value of 31bn.  Pre-credit crunch HBOS made 4bn after tax while Lloyds made 3bn. So this means the new bank is on a historic price earnings multiple of between 4 and 5 times.  But going forward what will profits be? 2008 is pretty much a wash out as we know. Thereafter our brave new financial world could mean underlying banking profits are lower than we saw in 2007, although in Lloyds case this will be offset by 1.5bn in cost savings. On this crude basis, the shares look pretty cheap on a long-term view. Youd also have to say that the government looks to have struck a shrewd deal on behalf of taxpayers.  Curiously, HBOS shares are still at a 10% discount to the Lloyds offer price. So it would seem the stock market still has some doubts about the deal going ahead. There is also a mysterious second bidder that emerged over the weekend. This circus isnt over yet.  
