Fears over job security at banking giants HBOS and Lloyds TSB grew today after cost-cutting targets from their merger were hiked to more than 1.5 billion.  Up to 30,000 jobs are believed to be at risk, but banking bosses were remaining tight-lipped about any cuts.  Lloyds said it now hoped to find an extra 500 million from the combined cost base after its takeover of HBOS, fuelling concerns of swingeing jobs cuts.  Britain's biggest trade union Unite urged the banks to 'end the speculation' over jobs and offer clarity to worried staff as concerns grew in Scotland that the merger could see thousands of roles axed in the region.  Derek Simpson, Unite joint general secretary, said: 'It is completely unacceptable for the banks to continue fuelling speculation while leaving their worried staff in the dark.  'It is now time to start thinking about the human consequences of this takeover.'  The job cut speculation follows the revelation that Lloyds will have to write off another 10 billion when it takes over rival HBOS to create the new 'superbank.  The new estimate of HBOS's bad debt was revealed in a document to shareholders issued by Lloyds TSB and comes as it emerged that taxpayer support for the two banks could reach 17 billion.   Lloyds TSB's prospectus also indicates that it will begin paying dividends to shareholders-again after a year. More...   The banks were furious at suggestions that they would face a five-year ban on dividends in return for accepting the government bail-out.   But Lloyds TSB today said they had found a way to repay a tranche of government preference shares after 12 months.   The prospectus said that the Treasury would not restrict its ability to act in a 'commercial' manner, a hint that it would continue to pay bonuses and salaries as it saw fit.   It sheds an alarming new light on why HBOS came so close to collapse at the height of the banking crisis in September.   The circular states that 'a review of non-public information' by Lloyds TSB shows that 'negative net capital adjustments of no more than 10 billion' will be needed at HBOS after the acquisition.   The amount written off will affect the balance sheet rather than profits of the merged bank.   The precise figure will be revealed when the merged banking group unveils its first half results next summer.   Trading updates from Lloyds TSB and HBOS show that both have suffered in the turmoil that has gripped the banking world since the failure of Lehman Brothers on 15 September.   Lloyds TSB warned of a 'substantial reduction in statutory profit before tax' as a result of 'the impact of market dislocation, insurance related volatility and higher impairments'.   HBOS also said its profitability 'has been impacted'. The warnings are in contrast to Barclays, which said its profits in the first nine months of the year are ahead of last year.   Lloyds TSB and HBOS unveiled further details of plans, backed by the Government, to raise up to 17 billion as they go ahead with their merger.   Lloyds wants to raise 4.5 billion from investors and HBOS is seeking 8.5 billion. If the shares are not taken up, the Government will acquire them.   The Government will also directly buy preference shares in the two banks - worth 4 billion. 
