Barclays is raising up to 7.3bn of additional capital - including 5.8bn from investors in Qatar and Abu Dhabi - in a move that will allow the UK bank to boost its balance sheet without turning to the British state for cash. The capital increase, finalised early on Friday morning, allows Barclays to meet its pledge to regulators to lift its capital reserves as part of the state-sponsored recapitalisation of Britain's largest banks, but avoid the restraints on its business it would have faced if it had accepted government money. Barclays on Friday also issued an upbeat trading statement which showed that its profit before tax for the nine months to the end of September - arguably the most difficult period faced by the banking industry in decades - was slightly ahead of the same period of 2007. The trading statement suggests that Barclays has been more successful than some of its UK rivals in dealing with the consequences of the turmoil in the capital markets. The fundraising and trading statement surprised rival bankers and investors, who had been deeply sceptical about Barclays' ability to raise the capital it needed without government support. Barclays' shares were 9.6 per cent higher at 225p in early London trading. John Varley, chief executive, said: " Today's capital raising provides certainty and speed of execution, and combined with the strong third-quarter performance in a volatile operating environment enables us to continue to implement our strategy and build our business by serving clients and customers around the world." As part of the fundraising, Barclays will issue 3bn in reserve capital instruments, and up to 4.3bn of mandatory convertible notes, which convert into ordinary shares by June next year. Qatar Holding and Challenger, a company representing Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jabr Al-Thani, chairman of Qatar Holding, will invest 2.3bn in the instruments. This will almost double their existing shareholding to around 15.5 per cent. Meanwhile Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, a member of Abu Dhabi's ruling family, is investing around 3.5bn, which will leave him with more than 16 per cent of Barclays once the shares have been converted. However, the fundraising has come at a substantial cost to Barclays and its existing shareholders. The reserve capital instruments, which are similar to preference shares, pay an annual dividend of 14 per cent. The payment is tax-deductible, reducing the cost to Barclays to around 10 per cent. Barclays has also issued warrants to its new investors which give them the right to invest up to 3bn in Barclays shares at a price of 197.775p per share, equivalent to about 18 per cent of the bank's existing share capital. Chris Lucas, Barclays' finance director, said that after taking into account the tax benefits and the cost of the warrants, the price of the reserve capital instruments was similar to the preference shares issued to other UK banks by the government, which pay an annual dividend of 12 per cent. Barclays will also offer 1.5bn of convertible notes to existing shareholders and other institutional investors. Marcus Agius, Barclays' chairman, said the bank decided against raising capital from existing investors through a rights issue because the process took too long. Barclays' search for capital has been led by Roger Jenkins, a long-serving executive who is chairman of its investment banking and investment management operations in the Middle East. In recent months, Mr Jenkins and his team have contacted a large number of investors to gauge their interest in investing in Barclays. The bank held detailed talks with the Libyan government about an investment, though the Libyan Investment Authority dropped out of the talks on Thursday night. However, the LIA may yet subscribe to some convertible notes as part of the offering to shareholders. Barclays' capital increase marks the second time in six months that the bank has turned to the Middle East for fresh capital. The QIA already has a large stake in Barclays after participating in the bank's 4.5bn capital increase - priced at 282p a share - earlier this year. Under a plan agreed with the Financial Services Authority, Barclays has been given until the end of the year to raise 3bn in preference shares, and until March to raise a further 3.5bn in ordinary shares. If the bank had failed to secure private capital it would have been forced to turn to the UK government, which would have been expected to impose onerous terms on any capital injection, and could demand the resignations of senior executives. Barclays' third-quarter results included the acquisition of Lehman Brothers' North American investment banking and capital markets businesses; and net losses from credit market writedowns of 129m, comprising writedowns of 1.2bn offset by 1.1bn gains on the fair valuation of issued notes. 
