A last-minute rival bid that scuppers the merger of HBOS and Lloyds could keep thousands of under-threat jobs in Yorkshire, analysts said last night. It emerged over the weekend that a new consortium is being put together to make a potential bid for the stricken bank, with representatives holding discussions with senior Government Ministers. Scottish Secretary Jim Murphy has had talks with Jim Spowart, the founder of HBOS-owned Intelligent Finance, about the possibility of a group putting together an alternative offer for HBOS. If that were to go ahead, thousands of jobs in Halifax and nearby Copley, under increasing threat from a merger between HBOS and Lloyds " which will be looking to make significant efficiency savings and has already removed Yorkshire representatives from its board " could be saved. Last night a Member of the Scottish Parliament said a third potential bidder is looking at HBOS in the hope of snatching the bank away from Lloyds. The SNP's Alex Neil said the latest party to show interest in Scotland's oldest bank was a company based abroad that did not have a major high-street presence in the UK. This would protect jobs in the UK, as there would be no overlap of roles as would happen if Lloyds merged with HBOS. The Scotsman newspaper reported that the firm had made preliminary inquiries about HBOS, but was not as far through the process as the other potential bidder. The talks with Mr Spowart were taking place as details emerged of a further 5bn write-down that HBOS is expected to make to the stock market in an update this week. HBOS warned last month that its profits were being squeezed by bad debts and asset value markdowns, while it was also suffering from increased funding costs in stricken wholesale money markets and falling property prices. The expected hefty writedowns " due to come in a statement to coincide with a trading update from Lloyds " will underline the trading troubles faced by HBOS as it seeks to secure the tie-up with white knight suitor Lloyds. As many as 15,000 to 20,000 jobs could go in total following a merger between the two groups, with hundreds of branches also at risk of being axed. Politicians in both Yorkshire and Scotland are becoming increasingly worried about Lloyds's intentions " and are likely to welcome interest from a new consortium, especially one based overseas. While British-based banks already have large behind-the-scenes staff in the UK and would look to make efficiency savings by reducing staff numbers, an overseas bank looking to extend its presence would need to keep a bigger proportion of staff. Mr Murphy, right, yesterday confirmed he had hosted talks with Mr Spowart and said: 'I have spoken to the Treasury and if there is a second serious bid then the Treasury would be happy to talk to them.' Mr Spowart, who left the HBOS group more than four years ago, said: 'This is a genuine, genuine interest... just let's hope for Scotland this is another alternative we're able to look at.' He added: 'It would keep the bank more or less intact, I can't guarantee the situation on jobs but I don't think there would be job cull at the same level as what is currently estimated or anticipated by Lloyds TSB.' Simon Martin, an analyst with Leeds-based Charles Stanley stockbrokers, said he thought the new consortium could include National Australia Bank (NAB), which already owns the Yorkshire Bank and Clydesdale Bank in Scotland. Taking over HBOS would allow the Australians to gain greater access to British high streets and consolidate their banking headquarters in Glasgow and Yorkshire. 'This consortium is probably based around a foreign bank which has no debts and could inject the cash required to buy HBOS. I can't see the Americans being interested and the Arabs are concentrating on Barclays at the moment,' he said. 'NAB have always talked about expanding, and why go so far on to the high street through acquiring Yorkshire and Clydesdale banks without going the whole hog?' Mr Martin said an offer by NAB would be promising for both Scotland and Yorkshire. 'There will be a lot of political pressure for this deal to come on to the table. The nationalists will want it because it will preserve a Scottish bank, those in Yorkshire will like it as it guarantees the Halifax brand, and politicians in both regions will want it as it will almost certainly preserve more jobs than Lloyds. 'If there is to be another bid they will have to work very quickly to catch up with Lloyds. But Lloyds may be happy for another company to take over HBOS as well.'
