     &amp;quot;This country can't afford another four years of this failed philosophy...Eight years of policies that have shredded consumer protections, loosened oversight and regulation, and encouraged outsized bonuses to CEOs while ignoring middle-class Americans have brought us to the most serious financial crisis since the Great Depression...I certainly don't fault Sen. McCain for these problems, but I do fault the economic philosophy he subscribes to.&amp;quot; - Obama  &amp;quot;The government was forced to commit $85 billion (to save AIG)...These actions stem from failed regulation, reckless management and a casino culture on Wall Street that has crippled one of the most important companies in America...The focus of any such action should be to protect the millions of Americans who hold insurance policies, retirement plans and other accounts with AIGWe must not bail out the management and speculators who created this mess. They had months of warnings following the Bear Stearns debacle, and they failed to act.&amp;quot; - McCain  &amp;quot;This crisis serves as a stark reminder of the failures of crony capitalism and an economic philosophy that sees any regulation at all as unwise and unnecessary...It is time for a new economic strategy, guided by the principle that America prospers when all Americans prosper, where common-sense rules of the road ensure that competition is fair, open, and honest.&amp;quot; - Obama  &amp;quot;There's been tremendous turmoil in our financial markets and Wall Street and it is - people are frightened by these events...Our economy, I think, still the fundamentals of our economy are strong. But these are very, very difficult times...And I promise you, we will never put America in this position again. We will clean up Wall Street. We will re-reform government.&amp;quot; - McCain  &amp;quot;My opponent is running for four more years of policies that will throw the economy further out of balanceHis outrage at Wall Street would be more convincing if he wasn't offering them more tax cuts. His call for fiscal responsibility would be believable if he wasn't for more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans.&amp;quot; - Obama  &amp;quot;Sen. Obama took more money from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac than anyone but the chairman of the committee they answer toAnd he put Fannie Mae's CEO, who helped create this problem, in charge of finding his vice president. That's not change, that's what's broken in Washington.&amp;quot; - McCain  &amp;quot;This isn't 9/11. We know how we got into this mess. What we need now is leadership that gets us out.&amp;quot;  Obama may have gotten the last word, but will he get the last laugh?  We wont find out until Nov. 4.  Until then, well have to do what Q-Tips did in the A Tribe Called Quest song Steve Bikolaugh to keep from crying.       
