Lehman bankrupt. Merrill acquired. AIG wobbly. Who is going to be next?I usually never write about banking. Two reasons - I like it, but it does not really excite me, and secondly, it is pretty irrelevant to this blog.But today, on September the 15th, 2008, I can't help but write about this industry. This weekend saw the demise of two of the biggest securities firms of US - Lehman Brothers (158 years old) and Merrill Lynch (94 years old). While Lehman filed a petition for the biggest bankruptcy US has ever seen, Merrill was bought out by Bank of America in the seventh largest bank acquisition ever. It was one of the worst days in the history of Wall Street. Two firms which were considered pioneers in the field of investment banking succumbed to the credit crisis.I had been following updates on Lehman all over the weekend. On Sunday, it was evident that the company had just two options in front of it - either to find a buyer or to file for bankruptcy. The US treasury refused to extend guarantees to the potential buyers i.e. Barclays and Bank of America (BoA), and this made both the companies back out. As a result, Lehman had no option left but to file for Chapter 11. But it was a surprise for me when I came to office on Monday morning, logged into my bloomberg and saw that Merrill had been bought out by BoA. It all happened pretty quickly, and history was made, or I should say 'wiped out'. And what happened to BoA? Well, the markets realized that it would be difficult for it to service the excessive debt it was taking by buying out Merrill for US$ 50bn and thus its stock was down 21% from where it closed on Friday.I read an article on Lehman employees today and how some of them cried while leaving the premises for the last time. It was sad, but then the investment banks brought it upon themselves, and on the entire world as well.Who is next to fall? Difficult to say - perhaps AIG (one of the biggest insurance firms in the US) or Washington Mutual (the largest saving and loan association in the US)? Hopefully, no one. Because more pain for the markets would mean that the person on the street is going to suffer.And on a somewhat unrelated note, I was pleasantly surprised when I talked to mom on phone today. She seemed to be aware that the basic reason for the crisis was the reckless and careless lending to the 'subprime' borrowers in the US. I never expected that an average middle-class Indian would know the reason behind the market turmoil. Had I not been in the banking industry, I too might not have known, but I guess I just underestimated my mom. ;-) The only thing that bothered me about my conversation with her was that she kept mispronouncing 'Lehman' as 'Lay-men'. I mean heights of sleaziness mom. Hehehe!!
