     So nowmore large corporations are going to the wall  the effects of this  worthless Sub Prime paper is now in full swing in the USA, as well as other  banks and financial institutions around the world. Lehman Brothers investment bank are seeking Bankruptcy protection, and as a  result some 23,000 employees are out of work, and most of them will lose their  homes, and their other assetsas well, but there may be hope for Lehman brothers  or at least parts of it as Treasury and Federal Reserve officials are working on  a sale of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the 158-year-old investment bank that  reported a third-quarter loss of $3.9 billion. U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson,  who lead a government takeover of the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  last weekend, has said he's reluctant to use Federal funds to rescue Lehman.   Greenspan said ``What they are trying to do with  Lehman is find a way in which there is no government money involved in this  particular set of negotiations,'  ``If they can't, they have to make a very  key decision as to whether they allow it to liquidate or support  it,' he said, adding that he doesn't know enough details to  recommend the right move.  Another huge shakedown in the form of Merrill Lynch  here from the press  release on the Merryl Lynch website  here  is the part thereof.. However in the new form as part of Bank of America, at  the very least  it will remainviable part even after the sale atat a knock  down  fire sale price  this really may look like the end, but its not  its  only what is immediately visible. Then of course will come the inevitable  rationalisations of branches, staff, computer &amp;amp; IT and .. Bank of America expects to achieve $7 billion in  pre-tax expense savings, fully realized by 2012. The acquisition is expected to  be adding to growth &amp;amp;earnings by 2010. The transaction is expected to close in the first  quarter of 2009. It has been approved by directors of both companies and is  subject to shareholder votes at both companies and standard regulatory  approvals. The combined company would have leadership positions in  retail brokerage and wealth management.By adding Merrill Lynchs more than  16,000 financial advisers, Bank of America would have the largest brokerage in  the world with more than 20,000 advisers and $2.5 trillion in client  assets. However did you note the part about they want to achieve $7 Billion in  pre-tax expense saving .. more rationalisation, and more jobs lost .. another  victim of mainly Sub-Prime. What caused the fall of Merrill Lynch  perhaps  this list of the101 dumbest moments: In the  first quarter of 2007, thanks to its $1.3 billion purchase of First Franklin  Financial, Merrill Lynch becomes the world's top underwriter of  sub-prime-mortgage-backed securities. Nonetheless, with the market in meltdown  just a few months later, Merrill CFO Jeffrey Edwards (pictured) tells analysts  that the firm's sub-prime exposure is &amp;quot;limited, contained, and appropriately  marked.&amp;quot; In October, Merrill announces a quarterly loss of $2.24 billion after  $7.9 billion in sub-prime-related write-downs.  The next big problem area maybe in Insurance industry  and any other company  that is directly involved with the finance markets, the stock markets,rating  agencies, and morebanks and of course their customers. Others likely to be at risk in the very short term in the USA will beAIG (American Insurance) the worlds largest insurer and Internationally CBD  the German  CommerzBank  which seemsto be a well managed institution, which however did  become involved with the Sub Prime  as well due to its recent purchase of the  Dresdner Bank, aninvestment it made recently, will correct over time  withthe  proposed slashing of 9,000 jobs from the Investment Banking groupDresdner  Kleinwort. The flow on effect of this ever world wide tightening of confidence  and  hence credit not only between banks and other financial institutions  but  between banks and their clients  do remember than clients come in all shapes  and sizes  from citizens to corporations to Governments themselves. I suppose  Governments can always print more money  which of course isnt too good for the  value of the money itself and can be very detrimental when it comes to using our  currency to buy other currencies  thereby affecting thebalance of trade.  Throughout history, governments have tried to solve financial problems by  simply printing more money, akin to what the USA is doing now in a small way  (any thoughts as to why the US Dollar is at such a low level  still) . This can  drive the value of money drastically downward, especially in modern markets  where money is not backed by gold. Twice as many dollars in an economy makes  those dollars worth half as much. So I would ask the Federal Reserveto perhaps  call Greenspan  if you need any education as to the effect on money supply on  inflation. Greenspan does have some comments  here  in a Bloomberg report saying that he believed it to be a once in a 100  year event. There are other flow on effects from the death or severe contraction of large  corporations(1) What happens when all of those big tenants vanish from the  building they occupy  obviously lenders will then get another round of failures  on top of the failures of the financial institutions themselves as well as all  of those former highly paid people from those expired organisations dumping  their own real estate , cars, shares, securities on the market in bulk  what do  you think this will do to the prices of these former assets  the golden rule   Scarcity has a direct relationship to value  if all of these assets become  available at once  the prices they realise will be fire sale and hence we then  lead onto the next chain  the financiers for these former employees.Tomorrow is 'D Day&amp;quot; for one of the two Monsters of the Merchant Banks that are left in New York - with the release of Morgan Stanley's 3rd Quarter figures - it will give an indicator of whether the financial services sector will survive as we know it, in any shape to go forward. Of course there are real hardship issues here  not everyone has been laying  a golden egg  manywere just getting by, month to month  as a result of this  highly leveraged consumerist society  they will experience real hardship in the  short term until they can be obtain employment. I can only wish them all good luck for the future..     ...
