      &amp;quot;The fundamentals of the economy are strong,&amp;quot; trumpets John McCain. The fundamentals of the American economy are not only weak; they are structurally unsound. With a national debt of $10 trillion, a war in Iraq costing $1 billion every two days, interest on the national debt alone totaling $500 billion a year, another trillion added to the debt for corporate bail-outs, zero savings rate, consumer credit card debt, consumer negative home equity - I could go on and on, but you get the picture. Lehman Brothers, around since the Civil War, was allowed to go bankrupt. Merrill Lynch sold itself to Bank of America. The Fed bails out AIG to the tune of $85 billion and then takes an 80% stake for which the taxpayers will never see a penny of profit because we're not socialists, remember? We're only socialists when it comes to bailing out the rich, not when it comes to making profit to offset taxes. James Moore writes in&amp;quot;A Nation of VillageIdiots&amp;quot;:       Conservative Republicans always want the government to stay out of business and avoid regulation as long as they are making lots of money. When their greed, however, gets them into a fix, they are the first to cry out for rules and laws and taxpayer money to bail out their businesses. Obviously, Republicans are socialists. The Bush administration has decided to socialize the debt of the big Wall Street Firms. Taxpayers didn't get to enjoy any of the big money profits on the phony financial instruments like derivatives or bundled sub-prime paper, but we get the privilege of paying for their debt and failures.  Let's just consider the money. The public bailout of insurance giant (becoming a dwarf) AIG is estimated at $85 billion. According to one report, that's more than the Bush administration spent on Aid to Families with Dependent Children during his entire time in office. That amount of money would also pay for health care for every man, woman, and child in America for at least six months.  You can bet your bippy that, after the taxpayers have bailed out A.I.G. and now own 80% of it, they will never see a cent of profit from it. If A.I.G., Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have been socialized in order that the taxpayers can have the privilege of paying off their debts then, when they get back on their feet, the taxpayers should also reap their profits. These could be considered an offset against taxes which will have to be raised to pay the interest on the national debt caused by adding the cost of the bailouts to it. However, as soon as these institutions become profitable again, they will be privatized. So the losses are socialized, the profits are privatized.       How did we get here? That's pretty easy to answer, too. His name is Phil Gramm. A few days after the Supreme Court made George W. Bush president in 2000, Gramm stuck something called the Commodity Futures Modernization Act into the budget bill. Nobody knew that the Texas senator was slipping America a 262 page poison pill. The Gramm Guts America Act was designed to keep regulators from controlling new financial tools described as credit &amp;quot;swaps.&amp;quot; These are instruments like sub-prime mortgages bundled up and sold as securities. Under the Gramm law, neither the SEC nor the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) were able to examine financial institutions like hedge funds or investment banks to guarantee they had the assets necessary to cover losses they were guaranteeing.  This isn't small beer we are talking about here. The market for these fancy financial instruments they don't expect us little people to understand is estimated at $60 trillion annually, which amounts to almost four times the entire US stock market.  And Senator Phil Gramm wanted it completely unregulated. So did Alan Greenspan, who supported the legislation and is now running around to the talk shows jabbering about the horror of it all. Before the highly paid lobbyists were done slinging their gold card guts about the halls of congress, every one from hedge funds to banks were playing with fire for fun and profit.  John McCain has been a deregulator from way back. Remember the Savings and Loan scandal and bail-out? Why there was John McCain in the middle of it - one of the Keating 5 who told the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBB) to stay away fromCharles Keating and his Lincoln S&amp;amp;L. With Phil Gramm as his economic advisor and future possible Secretary of Treasury, do you think his agenda will include repeal of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act which repealed the depression era Glass-Steagall Act which put a firewall between commercial and investment banking? Don't bet on it. These guys are philosophically against regulation. But it just isn't lack of regulation that's the problem. Fancy financial derivatives are a big part of the problem and they need not just to be regulated but to be made illegal. What do you think the chances are of that? In order to save capitalism from itself, capitalism has to be rolled back to a time when none of these financial instruments existed. Asking a commission to regulate them at this point is probably beyond human capabilities because no one understands them, least of all the guys who invented them and then lost billions of dollars using them.       McCain and four other US senators (known to history as the Keating Five) met with Edwin Gray, then chairman of the FHLBB. McCain had been hesitant to attend but had reportedly been called a &amp;quot;wimp&amp;quot; behind his back by Keating. The message to the FHLBB and Gray from the Keating Five was to lay off Lincoln and cool the investigation. Gray and the FHLBB did not relent but Lincoln stayed in business until 1989 when it collapsed with the rest of the S&amp;amp;L industry. The life savings of more than 20,000 elderly investors disappeared with the failure of Lincoln. Keating went to prison for five years. Charles Keating was John McCain's pal. They met in 1981 and Keating dumped $112,000 in the McCain campaign bank accounts between '82 and '87. A year before McCain met with the FHLBB regulators, his wife Cindy and her father, according to newspaper reports at the time, invested about $360,000 in one of Keating's shopping centers. The Arizona Republic reported McCain and his wife and their babysitter took nine trips on Keating's private jet to the Bahamas to stay at the S&amp;amp;L liar's decadent Cat Cay resort. The senator didn't pay Keating back for the plane rides until years later when he was under investigation.   But the main problem isn't the problems in the banking industry. It's the absolutely cavalier attitude on the part of every Republican administration since Ronald Reagan about the Federal debt which is added to with every bail-out. Don't forget folks that we have to pay interest on this debt which is now around $500 billion a year. That's money that can't be spent on infrastructure, education, health care, social security, investment in new job producing industriesand many other programs that could be helping those in need not to mention victims of the increasingly frequent natural disasters thanks to global warming.  The situation has gotten dire, my friends. The US is in hock to foreign central bankers and sovereign wealth funds. China has been loaning us the money so we can go into debt for years. The US is facing the situation that it will become merely a protectorate of China or of an international coalition. Thanks Reagan, Bush, Bush-Cheney.    
