September 16, 2008Wall Street's Black Sunday &amp;amp; Monday MeltdownThe magnitude of this financial, housing, and credit crisis, is difficult to put into perspective. But, if you have a 401K, you are losing money. Fallout from this meltdown will continue, and there is no end in site. President Bush is leaving a real financial mess for the next president. Who can we trust to fix this? Can it be fixed?Lehman Brothers, the fourth-largest investment bank in the United States, announced it is filing for a record bankruptcy after federal intervention failed to find a willing buyer Sunday. Bank of America (BoA), originally a Lehman suitor along with Barclays and others, is planning to buy Merrill Lynch instead for roughly $50 billion. Insurance giant AIG, meanwhile, is sinking and needs $40 billion to stay afloat. The Federal Reserve announced new measures to help markets cope with the fallout. The DOW closes with a 504 point loss. This is the single biggest drop since 9/11. Check out John McCain's take on the economy, as well as the other candidates by watching the videos.   USA Today - Bloomberg calculates that stocks erased more than $600 billion in value and that S&amp;amp;P 500 financial shares fell the most since at least 1989.  ABC News - "Terrible" only begins to describe Monday's disaster on Wall Street, as one bank filed for bankruptcy, another was bought for a song and an insurance giant faced a struggle to stay solvent. Posted by Catherine Morgan on the Election2008 Blog on 09/16/08 Action of the Week  Reverse Mississippi's Decision to Violate Electoral Law In Mississippi, the Republican Secretary of State decided to bury the Senate race below all local contests - a move widely expected to help the Republican candidate. This is a direct violation of state election law. Tell Governor Barbour - who approved the ballot - to reverse his decision and maintain the integrity of the election! Multimedia FeatureSarah Palin and Hillary Clinton on SNL                                
