My case today was listed for 3 hours.  St.Helens Court has only 2 chambers operating-mine was reserved for the morning session.  Unfortunately the defence yet again drew a halt to the proceedings.  The acting Solicitor for Eversheds claimed that he did not have anything like the substantive documents the Judge had-in fact he claimed only to have a few pages.  I stated that I had sent the bundle to Eversheds on 23rd December and had proof of posting and delivery for 2 packets.In email exchanges prior to sending this Eversheds were aware I was sending it,and confirmed theirs would be sent on the 23rd also.    I am extremely concerned and angry and told the Judge so.I also informed the Court that this was not isolated and was a frequent ploy by the defendants to frustrate proceedings.  The Judge felt it was inconcievable to proceed with trial given that the defence has not seen my submissions.  I dont want to say to much here since I am more than aware of both Citifinancial AND Eversheds monitoring of these threads.  I will just say that I intend to submit to the Court,evidence of all the cases I am aware of whereby the defendants have claimed the same thing.    They should not be allowed to do this time and time again.It is a clear abuse of process and there can be no excuses or good reasoning to say otherwise.    I am quite suprised that they choose to pull this tac on me,but I clearly should have had proof of delivery with me in Court-although the Judge was able to see a letter I had sent with my Court bundle stating that I had sent the defence the bundle.This in itself was not proof.    The order was made for me to resubmit within 14 days further copies of all documents I will be relying on.    Needless to say,I will be putting together an application for costs-since on the next appearance I will certainly show proof of delivery of the bundle the first time.      One point that was discussed was Citis offices.  The acting Solicitor claimed that Salford was still operational-despite me saying that Citi claimed otherwise.He said that the London address was their corporate office.  It is my understanding that in all cases Eversheds are registering their address and contact details with the courts for any communications to be sent there.    So if any clamants are already engaged in litigation then all Legal notices should be sent to Eversheds.  If your case has been stayed-make sure that your Court has this info on file.    Finally-it goes without saying-make sure you take proof of post and delivery of all comms to Court with you.  I actually had these for all my other letters to Citi in my bundle.  I just did not have the one proof that was needed today with me.    I expect it will be a few weeks before I have another trial,but I can assure Eversheds that I am more than eager for that date-sooner rather than later.
