 FEMA dropped the ball but the US military didn't.  We had our airplanes on the ramp at KMSY (New Orleans Intl) literally as soon as the weather allowed.  I know for a fact that while FEMA fumbled, our airplanes flew out hundreds of medical patients and refugees, and the helicopters rescued thousands.  As far as the cost to build aircraft, it's simply a fact that aircraft are not cheap, unless you want junk that will crash (and cost more in the long term).  But think about this...I believe the new C-130Js that we're trying to buy to replace our 1960s C-130Es cost about $70 million...it's not much more expensive than the much smaller business jet that Citibank was going to buy...and it can carry 8 cargo pallets and operate out of dirt airstrips.  Those aircraft are also made by AMERICANS in Georgia, along with much of the subcomponents.  I agree that we need to limit the purchase of the very expensive F-22...although it's made in the US, it is very cost prohibitive, and it will be better if we focus buying the cheaper F-35, also made by the same company in Ft Worth.  Speaking of costing too much to risk...you need to understand that the trucks the fire department uses are extremely expensive, along with the police helicopters, fire-fighting aircraft and a host of other stuff that is used for emergency use.  The reason why any of that stuff is expensive is because a ton of R&amp;D is put into designing and making it, and then since not everyone needs a fire truck, cargo airplane or other piece of equipment, the unit costs are higher.  Aircraft are particularly expensive to make, given all the engineering effort that goes into them to make them efficient and safe.  Russians and Chinese can make airplanes way cheaper than we can...but I really wouldn't want to be on a Russian-made aircraft...I see those guys around here all the time, and sometimes it's just scary what kind of shape those aircraft are in.  Bottom line...our military is worn out.  If we don't invest in it now, it's going to get worse, and it'll just cost more down the road. 
