Where is your integrity Paidro?? This is a bold face lie!!! Jack Brown sued Terrell, Nichols and old T/A for the 2B shares you where holding and won. When is Nichols going to pay Terrells restitusion (52k)? Ha ha come on Paidro, tell it to all you liar. Monday, November 24, 2008 Important update on the investigation of the PDR Exchange... Good morning Pan Americans Let's get to the issues: 1. To date, MST and PDREX have not responded in a positive way: FUNDAPAN has not received the conveyances sent in for approval from the PDREX, therefore we must assume that the alleged beneficiaries of FUNDAPAN generated by the PDREX, MST, and staff are BOGUS... 2. All the information provided to the investigators by MST and Software designers regarding the PDREX software is not sufficient to decipher and confusing to the point that the experts on software development investigating are beginning to think the PDREX software is A HOAX. These facts explains why the problems with DESIMPLEX were created by MST to gain control of the software to be able to manipulate it? FUNDAPAN is the owner of the PDREX software for the benefit of its beneficiaries. 3. Another party from Sarasota, Florida has emerged in the group? He has emailed stating that: MST will send all PNMS share certificates illegally held in Dallas next week to FUNDAPAN. Great damage has already been done...I do not know the fellow! 4. The bank accounts for PNMS and DCC at Bank of America in America II USA, Dallas have no balance we are trying to get the Bank to cooperate, to be able to check the Bank statements for both accounts... 5. I met with Fed-Reps from America II USA in C.R. They will begin a fraud investigation involving PDREX, Michael Scott Terrell CEO PDREX, Gregg Nichols CPA, Old Transfer Agent and others involved. We are fully cooperating as far as Law 25 of the 12th of June, 1995 allows us, since the Assets involved in the alleged fraud were never conveyed or received by FUNDAPAN. FUNDAPAN and PANAMERSA will succeed and go forward... at least the PNMS shares in the FUNDAPAN are secured... I will do all that is necessary to concentrate on PNMS (P.P.S.) to reflect it's true value and work with MMs, Brokers, Others, Etc. to properly reflect the PNMS growth value. March 2009 is a good target to recover value from America I Cuba. The new President elect in America II USA will cooperate for an orderly lifting of the embargo! Thank you for listening my friends, together we will succeed!!! Best regards Pan Americans, Pedro Borges Fiol Founder-Protector FUNDAPAN - PAN NEWS Network - http://blog.panamersa.net/2008_11_01_archive.html
