 Freddie Mac, seized by the government two months ago, asked the Treasury for $13.8 billion after a record quarterly loss caused its net worth to fall below zero.  The company said it expects to receive the money by Nov. 29. The third-quarter net loss widened to $25.3 billion, or $19.44 a share, after writing down tax assets and providing for bad mortgages and securities, McLean, Va.-based Freddie said in a statement today.  Freddie's demand adds to the government's growing burden as it tries to prevent a collapse in financial markets. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has pledged $700 billion to bail out banks and finance companies and the Federal Reserve stepped in to support the short-term debt markets. Fannie Mae, also placed under government control in September, said this week it may need funds at the end of the year and warned the $100 billion earmarked by the government may not be enough.'You could very well get losses north of $100 billion on both of these companies,'' said Paul Miller, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Va.  Freddie Chief Executive Officer David Moffett, named in September when the government seized control of the company, increased writedowns for bad mortgages and securities and took a charge against most of Freddie's so-called deferred tax credits.  Fannie CEO Herbert Allison took similar steps earlier this week, causing the Washington-based company to record a $29 billion loss.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency took control of Freddie and Fannie after examiners found the worst housing slump since the Great Depression depleted their capital too much. Paulson at the time pledged to invest as much as $100 billion as needed in each company to maintain their positive net worth.  Paulson said at a news conference in Washington on Nov. 12 that the decision to seize control of Fannie and Freddie 'proved all too necessary.'''The GSEs were failing, and if they did fail, it would have materially exacerbated the recent market turmoil and more profoundly impacted household wealth, from family budgets, to home values, to savings for college and retirement,'' Paulson said.Treasury has 'stabilized'' the companies, which 'now operate on stable footing,'' Paulson said. 'They have strong government support backing both future capital and liquidity needs.''  Fannie said this week it may need more than the $100 billion in funding pledged by the Treasury to stay afloat.'This commitment may not be sufficient to keep us in solvent condition or from being placed into receivership,'' if there are further 'substantial'' losses or if the company is unable to sell unsecured debt, Fannie said in a Nov. 10 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Freddie's net worth stood at a negative $13.7 billion at the end of the quarter. The company wrote down its deferred tax assets by $14.3 billion, leaving $11.9 billion. Companies build up tax credits as their losses grow, keeping them as assets in anticipation they can be used when profits return.  The company took a $5.7 billion provision for credit losses, up from $2.5 billion in the second quarter. Total credit expenses, including provisions for future losses, increased to $6 billion from $2.8 billon last quarter.  Fannie's net worth, or the difference between assets and liabilities, tumbled to $9.4 billion as of Sept. 30 from $44.1 billion at Dec. 31. The company said Nov. 10 that the number may be negative by the end of the year.  Fannie and Freddie will have to pay the Treasury a 10 percent annual dividend if they access the federal funding. The cost, which is only paid out if the companies are profitable, will drag down earnings even if the housing market eventually turns around, Rajiv Setia, a fixed-income strategist at Barclays Capital in New York, said.'Once you have $50 billion in preferred outstanding at a 10 percent rate, it leaves virtually nothing for common shareholders,'' said Setia, who estimates the cost at $5 billion a year. 'And the prospects of being able to earn your way out, even if credit conditions improve, is outrageous.''  Freddie said the dividend will cost $1.5 billion. If Freddie continues to lose money and is unable to pay, the unpaid amount will be added to the total outstanding balance of Treasury's senior investment and the dividend rate will increase to 12 percent.  Common shareholders of Freddie and Fannie were all but wiped out after losses prompted the government to place the companies into conservatorship on Sept. 6. Freddie, which traded above $47 a year ago, dropped 8 cents to 65 cents in midmorning New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Fannie dropped 7 cents to 55 cents and is down from $47.80 12 months ago.  Freddie's stock market value slumped from $22 billion at the beginning of the year to about $2.3 billion as of Thursday, including the government's 79 percent stake. Fannie's value is $3.3 billion.  Fannie and Freddie own or guarantee at least 40 percent of the $12 trillion in U.S. residential-mortgage debt outstanding. They make money by buying home loans and mortgage securities, profiting on the difference between their cost of borrowing and the yield on the debt. They also guarantee and package loans as securities for a fee.  Freddie has been directed to increase its holdings of mortgage loans and bonds, though faces difficulty doing so because of an 'an extremely limited ability'' to issue callable and long-term debt, according to a regulatory filing today. 
