As reported in this morning's Opening View, cruise company Carnival Corporation (CCL: sentiment, chart, options) was the target of skeptical options players on Friday. More specifically, the equity saw 11,321 puts change hands on all 6 exchanges - more than doubling its average daily put volume of fewer than 5,500 contracts.   However, Friday's preference for pessimistic positions stands in stark contrast to the recent activity in the options pits. During the past 10 days on the International Securities Exchange (ISE), the boating behemoth saw more than 3 times as many calls than puts bought to open. What's more, this ratio ranks in the 98th annual percentile, indicating options traders on the ISE are approaching an annual optimistic peak.   Further demonstrating the surging hopes in the options arena is CCL's descending Schaeffer's put/call open interest ratio (SOIR), measuring options slated to expire within 3 months. This ratio currently sits at 1.09, as short-term options speculators are only 5 percentage points from an annual bullish climax.   So, why the recent reversal in the options realm?  The company on Friday announced that it wouldn't pay a 2009 dividend, in an effort to preserve capital - $1.3 billion, to be exact. Carnival assured investors that it would make good on its promise of a fourth-quarter dividend, but doesn't plan on making any payments next year, as the firm has seen a slight drop in advance bookings for early 2009 cruises. 'We believe that preserving cash is a prudent step which will further strengthen the company's balance sheet and enhance our financial flexibility,' Carnival Chairman and Chief Executive Micky Arson told investors.   As a result of the news, the shares of CCL on Friday hit a new 52-week low, falling more than 21% from Thursday's close. Since trading atop the round-number 40 level in mid-September, the stock has nearly halved itself beneath resistance from its 10-day moving average, with recent rally attempts shot down by its 20-day cohort.   From a longer-term perspective, the stock's technical troubles are even more perplexing...  From an historical perspective, the shares' eleventh-hour descent allowed them to close the month of October in territory not explored in more than 5 years. The security is now attempting to find a foothold in the 22-to-24 neighborhood, which acted as support in late 2002 through mid-2003.   Also in light of the stock's recent fall from grace, the bulls in the brokerage bunch are bombarding the equity. Since the company's announcement, S&amp;amp;P Equity Research downgraded the stock to 'sell' from 'hold,' while Barclays cut its price target to $30 from $38. Meanwhile, Morgan Stanley slashed its price target to $37 from $41, Susquehanna Financial reduced its price target to $31 from $45, and Goldman Sachs cut its price target to $31 from $36.   However, the worst may not be over from the analyst community. According to Zacks, CCL currently garners 4 'strong buys' and 1 'buy' rating, compared to 4 'hold' or worse ratings. In addition, Thomson Financial reports that the average 12-month price target on the security stands at $39.20. In order to reach this lofty goal, the shares of CCL would need to muscle more than 63% higher from their current trading range below $24.   In conclusion, CCL investors should keep an eye on the aforementioned 22-24 neighborhood as potential support. A monthly close beneath this region would place the equity in territory not seen since late 2001. Furthermore, however, CCL fans should note the recent reversal in sentiment, as the former bulls are now finding refuge in the bears' lair. An additional unwinding of optimism in the options pits, or a fresh bout of downgrades and/or price-target cuts, could further exacerbate the stock's recent losses.   Enjoy Sentiment Snapshot? Now, you can get it sent directly to your inbox. Simply click here to sign in, select 'author' from the first box, determine how often you'd like to be alerted, and enter 'Andrea Kramer' into the third box. Easy as 1, 2, 3!  Bullish options traders take refuge in the bears' lair, as Carnival Corporation (CCL) sinks
