Richard Fuld will step down as chief executive of failed investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. by the end of the year and won't receive severance or a bonus, a spokesman said Wednesday.  He will stay on as chairman of the board.  Fuld faced growing pressure to give up the job, as critics accused him of contributing to the demise of the nation's fourth-largest investment bank. He has been a prominent target of public outrage over risky practices on Wall Street which helped send the economy spiraling into turmoil.  The announcement comes one day after New York State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli accused Fuld of leading Lehman to its chaotic, pre-dawn Chapter 11 filing on Sept. 15. 'Mr. Fuld's decisions drove the company toward ruin, as his board stood idly by,' DiNapoli argues in court papers filed late Tuesday asking a bankruptcy judge to appoint an independent investigator in the case.  A spokesman for the comptroller, Jim Fuchs, said, 'His resignation would be a good first step.' Fuld had offered to resign after Lehman sold its broker-dealer business to Barclays Capital on Sept. 20, but Chief Restructuring Officer Bryan Marsal asked him to stay until the end of the year to help with the transition, a spokesman said. 'Lehman Brothers is such a mess at the moment, it's difficult to know what he'd be contributing in a transition process,' said Paul Hodgson, a senior research associate at The Corporate Library. 'There are few CEOs, I think, who would think their employment was guaranteed after overseeing such a major collapse.' The bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was the biggest in U.S. history. It entered court protection with assets of $639 billion and debt of $613 billion.  Since the filing, Fuld  along with 11 former or current Lehman managers or officers  have been subpoenaed by federal prosecutors in three grand jury investigations. Those are being led by investigators in the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York and the District of New Jersey.
