Nov. 5--As automakers deal with the lowest monthly sales since 1983, companies with weak loan and financing affiliates face even larger hurdles than others as they try to lure buyers back into dealerships and overcome low consumer confidence.  The disparity between automakers was visible during October, even though all major automakers suffered from double-digit sales declines, Brian Johnson, an equity analyst for Barclays Capital Equity, said in a research note on Tuesday. 'The mounting pressure from limited credit availability took a disproportionately large toll on the sales of GM, which wasn't able to use GMAC financing to close the deal with its prospective buyers,' Johnson said. 'On the other hand, Ford, Toyota and Honda outperformed the broader market by a wide margin, benefiting from the support of their finance companies.' In October, General Motors Acceptance Corp.'s share of GM's sales was just 10% compared with an average of 35% in 2007, Johnson said.  On Oct. 14, GMAC began restricting its auto loans to people with credit scores of 700 or more, and has also cut back its leasing to almost zero, effectively eliminating a large segment of potential car buyers. 'You have only got somewhere under 30% -- let's call it 27% or so of the customers -- that actually have a score that high,' Mark LaNeve, GM's vice president of sales, service and marketing, said during a Monday conference call with analysts and journalists. 'Our dealers were forced to access outside banks to a very high degree.' And with banks across the nation still dealing with the subprime lending crisis, this is an especially difficult time for auto dealers to establish new lending relationships, said Curt Beaudouin, vice president and senior analyst for Moody's Investors Service. 'GMAC has really, really widespread relationships with the GM dealer body in the United States,' Beaudouin said. 'So effectively, what it means is that those buyers who are not going to be financed by GMAC are going to have to get financing elsewhere, in an environment that is not a very hospitable environment.' Moody's credit rating for GMAC is Caa1, which means it is a high credit risk and is just two levels above default. Moody's may also soon downgrade GMAC because it is under a credit review. GMAC, which is scheduled to report third-quarter earnings today, lost $2.5 billion in the second quarter.  Ford Motor Co.'s situation is somewhat better because its financing arm, Ford Motor Credit, has a credit rating of B2 from Moody's, the highest of the three domestic automakers' credit arms. Still, B2 is two levels below investment grade and is under a review for a possible downgrade. 'Ford Credit's percentage of our total business was about 50%,' Jim Farley, Ford's group vice president for marketing and communications, said during a conference call Monday. 'They are a strong, strategic asset for the sale of new vehicles and also for our dealer partners.' Both Toyota and Nissan have announced zero-percent financing programs in recent weeks and both companies have stressed that they decided to offer those to combat declining consumer confidence, which has dropped to historic lows, and to get the message out that financing is available.  Moody's Beaudouin said the financial strength of Toyota Motor Credit Corp. and Nissan Motor Acceptance Corp. makes it easier for those manufacturers to fund those programs because those companies have stronger credit ratings, which means their borrowing costs are lower. Moody's gives Toyota its highest investment rating and Nissan a high rating as well. 'I think recent developments have kind of put more space between entities like Toyota and Honda and the U.S. manufacturers because of their relative ratings,' Beaudouin said. Contact BRENT SNAVELY at 313-222-6512 or bsnavely@freepress.com.
