ADMINISTRATORS unwinding Lehman Brothers in Europe will next week reveal the value of the beleaguered bank's assets, but have warned the administration will be a long and complicated process.  Tony Lomas, who is leading the recovery for PricewaterhouseCoopers, said in a visit to Scotland on Friday that it could take months, if not years, before money is returned to hedge funds and other creditors because the administration is 'extraordinarily complex'. He added that it is likely to result in a catalogue of law suits as creditors try to reclaim cash, shares and securities.   PwC is under intense pressure from creditors, in particular hedge funds, to return assets traded through Lehman Brothers' European operations before its parent company on Wall Street filed for bankruptcy on September 15. Earlier this month, a group of hedge funds met the Bank of England and the Financial Services Authority in an attempt to expedite the process.  But Lomas warned that not only will it take a 'very long time' to determine where assets are held and who they belong to, but clients may not recover the full amount they are owed. '(Next week] we are going to be presenting the balance sheet of the company. Then the directors have to take a view about the realisable value of that. That's obviously an even more complicated exercise,' he told .Unwinding Lehmans' complex broker-dealer business in Europe is creating unusually long delays. Because assets and debts were often repackaged and sold on to other banks or 'custodians', PwC has had to wait to hear from nearly 100 organisations which traded with Lehmans' European operation. It also has the mammoth task of determining which assets were transferred to the parent company in the US, which was bought by Barclays after its collapse in September.Lomas said: 'We are reaching the point now where we have got reasonable insight into what securities and cash is out there with these custodians. But there are some holes and the biggest hole is we have got no confirmation of what is out in the US.'He added that many clients do not actually know what monies they are owed and what kind of assets they have a claim over.  The complications will exacerbate concerns over the hedge fund industry.  Hedge funds lost 4.6% of their value in September following the introduction of a ban on the short-selling of certain financial stocks.  There are fears statistics for October will highlight even more dramatic losses as some hedge funds are thought to have lost up to ?30bn on Volkswagen last week.
