By Sinead Cruise   LONDON, Nov 17 (Reuters) - Banking heavyweight JPMorgan will relocate its European HQ to London's Canary Wharf from the City of London, boosting morale in Britain's second-largest business district amidst a wave of financial sector job cuts.   JPMorgan has paid Canary Wharf Group (CWG) 237 million pounds ($350.9 million) for a plot of land on the estate, CWG's majority owner Songbird Estates said, in contrast to rival banks slashing spending and bracing for more job cuts.   'It is a pretty significant commitment on the part of JPMorgan, both to London and to Canary Wharf,' CWG company secretary John Garwood told Reuters on Monday.   The confirmation of JP Morgan's move to a site close to the Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley offices comes on the same day the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) said UK jobless figures could soar to almost 3 million by 2010.   JPMorgan, which has invested billions of dollars to save stricken banks Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual, has appointed CWG to develop the building, which could provide up to 1.9 million square feet of space and will enable the bank to consolidate a myriad of offices across London.   CWG will wait for instruction from JPMorgan before beginning construction, even though it has already begun infrastructure works. JP Morgan (News/Aktienkurs) would have forfeited 76 million pounds if it had chosen not to proceed.   'It is an example of a client working with a developer to ... make sure that the building can match as closely as possible the needs of the client in what has become a very changeable environment,' Garwood said.   SILVER LINING   Confirmation of the deal provides a welcome boost for the Canary Wharf business district, after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and Bank of America's purchase of Merrill Lynch raised doubts over occupancy.   Mood at the estate -- home to Citigroup, Bank of America, HSBC and Barclays -- has been at a low ebb since the global credit crunch and financial sector job cuts replaced an era of record bank profits and jaw-dropping banker bonuses.   The district remains almost fully let even after the September collapse of Lehman, partly because rents at the hub are on average 20 percent cheaper than in the City.   Market commentators quickly pointed out that Canary Wharf's JPMorgan win was another painful loss for Britain's historic financial heartland, which has lost a slew of key financial sector occupiers to the Wharf in the past decade.   'In the long-term, rents in Canary are a bit lower, but the main issue is deliverability,' said Dan Bayley, head of UK office agency at broker Atisreal. 'Once you are over 500,000 square feet in the City, there are far more planning hurdles to delivering a big building,' he said.   Long-term London City resident Nomura has set up home in the former headquarters of Lehman Brothers after taking over its investment banking operations last month, although formal assumption of the lease is still under negotiation.   'Nomura are in the building working away,' Garwood said. 'They have paid rent up until the end of the year and as far as we are concerned that will just carry on,' he said.   (See www.reutersrealestate.com for the global service for real estate professionals from Reuters)   (Editing by Victoria Bryan) ($1=.6753 Pound) Keywords: JPMORGAN CANARYWHARF/   (sinead.cruise@thomsonreuters.com; +44 (0)207 542 5154; Reuters Messaging: sinead.cruise.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
