In our M&amp;amp;A Roundup for the week ended Nov. 16, six of ten deals involved banks or insurers  including a big Treasury infusion to AIG, and a small one to UCBH. 'Regular' deals include Exelon's $12.6b purchase of NRG.  Roy Harris- CFO.com   US  Share  Banks, financial companies, and insurers accounted for 60 percent of U.S. dealmaking last week  with the largest transaction being the Treasury Department's $40-billion additional capital infusion into American International Group.  Indeed, government infusions do make big waves in the week's results when they occur. The fifth-largest transaction was Treasury's $298.7-million investment in San Francisco bank holding company UCBH Holdings Inc., in which the government accepted 298,737 newly issued Series C fixed-rate cumulative perpetual preferred shares and a warrant for up to 7,847,732 more shares.  Utility services holding company Exelon Corp. pulled off the second-largest deal of the week: a $12.60-billion exchange offer for NRG Inc., a wholesale power generation company, according to data provided to CFO.com by mergermarket.  For the sevem days ended Sunday, 36 North American deals were struck, totaling $54.54 billion, sharply up from the prior week's $3.99  when no U.S.-backed deals were recorded. For the year-to-date, 3,358 transactions worth $985.07 billion have now been reached, still far short of last year's record 4,556 deals, worth $1.44 trillion, as of this time.  U.S. Department of the Treasury to buy an undisclosed economic interest in American International Group for $40 billion  Treasury agreed to invest $40 billion more in American International Group, the New York City-based insurance and financial services company in exchange for newly issued AIG perpetual preferred stock and warrants to acquire common shares equal to 2 percent of AIGs outstanding share capital. Terms call for AIG to issue 4 million senior preferred shares with a liquidation preference of $10,000 a share. The preferred has limited voting rights, but will rank senior to AIG common, will accumulate quarterly dividends at an annual rate of 10 percent, and will be payable if declared by AIG directors. AIG cannot declare or pay any dividends on common or preferred that ranks equal to or junior to the preferred stock issued to the Treasury, however. Further, Treasury will receive a 10-year warrant to acquire a certain amount of common stock equal to 2 percent of the outstanding share capital. The warrant has an initial exercise price of $2.50 per AIG common share, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.  Seller financial advisor: Blackstone Holdings; JPMorgan  Bidder financial advisor: Morgan Stanley  Seller legal advisor: Sullivan &amp;amp; Cromwell  Bidder legal advisor: Davis Polk &amp;amp; Wardwell  Exelon Corp. to buy NRG Energy Inc. for $12.60 billion  Chicago-based utility services holding company Exelon said it would launch an exchange offer for NRG's outstanding shares. NRG is a Princeton, N.J.-based wholesale power generation company. Exelon offered 0.485-share for each NRG share, representing $25.46, a premium of 10.44 percent. The implied equity value of the transaction is about $5.9 billion.  Seller financial advisor: Citigroup; Credit Suisse  Bidder financial advisor: ABN AMRO; Barclays Bank; Lazard; UBS  Seller legal advisor: Kirkland &amp;amp; Ellis  Bidder legal advisor: Sidley Austin  Assured Guaranty Ltd. to buy the bond insurance business of Financial Security Assurance Holdings Ltd. from Dexia Group for $722 million  Hamilton, Bermuda-based Assured, a provider of financial guaranty services, definitively agreement to acquire the bond insurance operations of New York City-based financial guaranty and products provider Financial Security Holdings, from Brussels-based Dexia, a financial services company. Terms call for $361 million in cash and $361 million in stock.  Seller financial advisor: Goldman Sachs  Bidder financial advisor: Banc of America Securities  Seller legal advisor: Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp;amp; Hamilton  Bidder legal advisor: Mayer Brown  George Forrest International Afrique SPRL to buy Forsys Metals Corp. for $612 million  Oakville, Canada-based uranium producer Forsys definitively agreed to be acquired by George Forrest, a Congo-based investment holding company with interests in engineering and machine construction. Terms call for 77,170,231 Forsys shares to be purchased in a deal valuing the entire transaction at $654.41 million, a premium of 50.86 percent.  Seller financial advisor: CIBC World Markets  Bidder financial advisor: Not Available  Seller legal advisor: McCarthy Tetrault  Bidder legal advisor: Aird &amp;amp; Berlis  U.S. Department of the Treasury to buy an undisclosed economic interest in UCBH Holdings for $299 million  Treasury has agreed to invest $298.7 million in San Francisco-based UCBH, the holding company for United Commercial Bank, in exchange for 298,737 newly issued Series C fixed-rate cumulative perpetual preferred shares and a warrant to acquire up to 7,847,732 UCBH common shares. Terms of call for the Series C preferred shares to pay cumulative dividends at an annual rate of 5 percent for the first five years and 9 percent thereafter. The stock will not be redeemable for the first three years. The warrant for the common will have an exercise price of $5.71 per share, and is exercisable upon issuance. It will expire in ten years. Proceeds will be treated as Tier 1 capital and will increase UCBHs total risk-based capital ratio of from 12.5 percent to 15 percent as of Sept. 30. The bank will use the funds to support its lending activities.  Seller financial advisor: Not Available  Bidder financial advisor: Not Available  Seller legal advisor: Not Available  Bidder legal advisor: Not Available  
