(Wraps in client assets, adds details, interview)  By Olesya Dmitracova  LONDON, Nov 14 (Reuters) - The administrators of Lehman Brothers' European arm are poring over $1 trillion of positions and will take a long time to work out how much creditors will get back, they said on Friday.  Administrators PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) warned some creditors were likely to lose money, and said there were about $1 trillion worth of positions at Lehman Brothers Europe, with half a trillion of assets and half a trillion of liabilities. 'The prospect is that some creditors will lose money. How much? We can't determine that for a significant time,' joint administrator Tony Lomas told reporters, after a meeting of about 1,000 creditors of Lehman Brothers International (Europe). 'We don't know how much of that asset value will be lost or (those) obligations ... will rise,' Lomas said. Lehman Brothers International is the European unit of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc (LEHMQ.PK: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), which filed for bankruptcy protection in September.  The unit holds $22.3 billion in client assets, all of which will be returned, said joint administrator Steven Pearson. PwC has already recovered more than $5 billion of assets, he added.  After Lehman Brothers collapsed, Japanese investment bank Nomura (8604.T: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) acquired its investment banking and equities business in Europe.  It is unlikely that PwC will sell any more of Lehman's European businesses, Pearson told Reuters in an interview after the press briefing. 'There is really nothing left ... that would be attractive,' he said. British bank Barclays (BARC.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) bought Lehman's core U.S. brokerage business and its New York headquarters. The parent company is still seeking to unwind itself and sell other assets, such as its investment management division.  Out of about 5,200 Lehman employees in Europe, around 1,000 were made redundant, about 500 people resigned and 2,500 employees were transferred to Nomura, PwC said.  Lehman's collapse led to the largest U.S. bankruptcy filing in history, and unwinding its businesses is correspondingly daunting. 'In scale it's got to be at least 10 times as big (as Enron),' PwC's Lomas said, referring to the energy trading company that went bankrupt in 2001. (Additional reporting by Jane Grieve, editing by Will Waterman) 
