Why do some lobbyists and politicians want rules on RRIF withdrawals changed?  Essentially, the RRIF rules go like this: In the year you turn 71, you must convert your registered retirement savings plan (RRSP) into a registered retirement income fund (or similar instruments, unless you withdraw the funds and pay tax on them). At that point you can't contribute any more to these retirement accounts, and you must begin withdrawing from them.  There is a minimum amount you must withdraw each year. In the first year it is 7.38 per cent of the value of the RRIF. This percentage goes up each year, until age 94, after which you must withdraw 20 per cent of the remaining value in the RRIF each year.  The problem is that retirees who have seen their portfolios shrink are forced to cash in some of their investments in order to withdraw money. That might mean selling securities at a loss because of the decline in markets.  And the percentage RRIF holders must withdraw this year is based on the RRIF's value at Jan. 1. Because of the drop in the market this could mean they will have take out much more than they would have if the percentage was calculated later in the year.  The federal Liberals, several provincial politicians and some organizations that represent retirees have suggested pensioners be allowed to temporarily delay withdrawals so their portfolios have time to recover.  Why is AIG such an important player in the financial markets that it needs another huge U.S. government bailout?  Not only is AIG a massive insurance player - it operates in 130 countries and has assets of about $1-trillion (U.S.) - it also built complex derivative products for banks, brokerages and hedge funds. The company sold many credit default swaps - essentially insurance that protects investors against bond defaults. Because many financial players who bought them count on AIG to pay up on these swaps, the insurer's inability to do so would be a disaster for hundreds of other firms.  Why have European interest rates been so much higher than those in North America in recent months?  In Europe, as in every other developed economy, the central banks generally set interest rates to spur economic growth (by moving rates down) and to control inflation (by moving them up).  Until recently, inflation has been a bigger concern in Europe, so rates there were set higher to try to keep upward price pressures in check. In the U.S., growth has been subpar for several years, so the Fed has already moved rates down to try to stimulate the economy. Over all, Europeans tend to be more concerned about inflation than North Americans, said TD senior economist Richard Kelly, because in Europe many wages are indexed to inflation. As a result, a jump in prices can accelerate wage costs and damage the economy. Now, the focus in Europe has shifted to economic growth, as the consequences of the implosion of U.S. financial markets spread. Inflation is much less of a worry, so we're seeing big interest rate cuts to try to curb the shrinking of European economies.  
