 The Wall Street Journal reports that Herb 'Bart' McDade, until recently Lehman's CFO, is to leave Barclays Capital at the end of the month.   Reuters also reports that, according to a recent regulatory filing, Citigroup has lost $1.4bn from packaging credit card loans into bonds in the third quarter.  In an interview with Swiss daily newspaper Neue Zuercher Zeitung, Swiss National Bank Chairman Jean-Pierre Roth said that recent government assistance provided to UBS is already having a positive affect. He said: 'We have made a package to stabilise UBS. The dynamics have slowed and effects of a stabilisation have materialised'. The Financial Times also reports that UBS has raised $1.5bn for an infrastructure fund.  Bloomberg reports that Philippe Jabre's Jabre Capital Partners has closed its Singapore office and laid off 9 employees in Geneva. The firm's six Singapore staff have, however, been offered jobs with the firm if they agree to relocate. Jabre's firm specializes in convertible arbitrage, and has suffered from the general lack of leverage and the government-imposed short-selling limits.  The Financial Times reports that Anglo-US hedge fund Polygon is suspending redemptions in its flagship $4bn Global Opportunities multi-strategy fund, and that $11bn US hedge fund Ramius is considering giving back its Hong Kong trading and advisory licences.  Bloomberg reports that former GLG Partners trader Greg Coffey has ended up at Moore Capital Management as co-chief investment officer of the firm's European business.  The Financial Times reports that The Carlyle Group has raised $673m for small buy-outs of European technology companies.  Finally, The Sunday Times reports that Lazard Capital Markets, a privately-owned broker spun-off from Lazard, and four of its employees have agreed to pay over $3m to settle US civil charges that it made improper inducements to attract business from Fidelity Investments.  Note that the writer has a small position in stock in Barclays, Citi, Goldman and UBS.  Please use the 'E-Mail' button immediately under the article title to send this item to a friend. 
