Although ETFs have seen net cash inflows of more than $100 billion this year, the market pullback has trimmed total assets to $440 billion as of Oct. 27, down from $620 billion at the end of 2007, according to Morgan Stanley.  MarketWatch offers complete coverage of mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. Highlights:       In the third quarter, 25 new ETFs were launched. But 43 funds have been liquidated this year and three providers have exited the business. 'Many new listings so far this year have struggled to gain meaningful traction,' wrote Morgan Stanley analyst Paul Mazzilli in an Oct. 28 report. He noted that the 114 ETFs rolled out thus far in 2008 have managed to gather only $25 million on average. 'While some of the products offer unique exposure, the challenging market environment has limited flows into many of the newer ETFs, particularly those with a narrow focus,' Mazzilli said. Silver linings Still, the ETF business has seen net inflows this year in the face of a very difficult market. There are now 716 ETFs listed in the U.S. with combined average daily trading volume of more than $92 billion. Indeed, trading in ETFs has kicked up during the recent market turmoil and has represented as much as 40% of daily equity trading volume, according to some estimates. ETFs are baskets of securities that trade like individual stocks and allow investors to get exposure to broad markets and sectors. Despite the bleak market, some insiders are still positive on the industry's growth prospects. Indexed ETFs emerged stronger from the bear market earlier this decade after the dot-com bubble burst, said Gus Sauter, chief investment officer at Vanguard Group. 'Investors wanted diversification after getting killed in technology stocks,' Sauter said at an industry conference at the Nasdaq MarketSite in New York last week. This time around during the credit crunch, many buyers have been burned by the financial sector's collapse. Lee Kranefuss, chief executive of iShares at Barclays Global Investors, said ETFs have actually profited from previous market upheavals such as the tech bust and scandals involving corporate accounting and mutual-fund market timing. 'These events showed the benefits of ETFs, such as low costs, tax efficiency and transparency,' Kranefuss said. Ebbs and flows ETFs have enjoyed impressive overall growth over the past 15 years despite the recent decline in assets. Yet the industry's expansion can be misleading on the surface because most of the assets are concentrated in a handful of firms. Two providers still account for the vast majority of industry assets, according to Morgan Stanley. As of Oct. 23, Barclays Global Investors had $208 billion in ETF assets, for a roughly 47% market share, followed by State Street Global Advisors, which had $116 billion in assets and a 27 % market share. ETF latecomer Vanguard has been making up ground with an 8% market share. However, of the remaining 20 providers, none has a 5% market share and together they have $80 billion in assets, according to Morgan Stanley. Kranefuss at BGI said there could be a shakeout of some of the smaller ETF managers because their relative lack of scale may make it tough to survive a tough market. Meanwhile, the pace of ETF launches is expected to slow further after the boom in recent years. 'We're closer to the end of product development than the beginning,' Sauter said of Vanguard's ETF lineup. Added Jim Ross, senior managing director at State Street Global Advisors: 'With the markets swinging 500 points on a daily basis, people aren't too focused on the next innovative product.'  BOSTON (MarketWatch) -- The market meltdown has siphoned about 30% of the assets in exchange-traded funds so far this year, and more investment managers are bowing out of the business or shutting funds due to lack of interest.
