Analysts and insiders agree on one thing: The top executives wont likely come from the Wachovia side.  Three members of Wachovias board will join the 16-member Wells board when the $15 billion acquisition closes next month.  But Wells has not named any executives to lead the East Coast franchise.  Wells has a different organizational structure than Wachovia, and its unclear whether more than one executive might be placed in charge of the operation. But most industry watchers expect the bank to draw on its own ranks.  Nancy Bush, a bank analyst with NAB Research, says it is typical for a company such as Wells to try to draw upon the expertise of the bank it is acquiring. However, this may be a bit of an atypical situation because of the reputational issues with Wachovia and the existing management team, she says. Current Wachovia CEO Bob Steel, who replaced the ousted Ken Thompson this summer, has already said he wont be part of the company after the merger. There is not an operating role for me in the new company, he said during a news conference last month.  Bush expects David Carroll, head of Wachovias capital-management group, might be retained in some capacity, but not at the operating committee level he had at Wachovia.  One executive who analysts thought might have a future at Wells, Cece Sutton, jumped this week to Morgan Stanley as head of its new retail banking group.  The Wall Street firm, which discussed a merger with Wachovia, recently converted to a bank holding company along with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. so it could build a larger base of consumer deposits. Sutton was Wachovias head of retail and small-business banking and had been with the company since 1978. Jonathan Witter, head of distribution for Wachovias general bank, will also join Morgan Stanley as chief operating officer for the retail-banking group.  Other execs who might be retained in some form include Carlos Evans, who heads wholesale banking and the dealer business at the company, and Reggie Davis, who leads wholesale banking in the Southeast.  Ben Jenkins, who heads Wachovias general bank, is well respected, but at 64 hes near retirement age.  Tony Plath, a professor of finance at UNC Charlotte, says because Jenkins likely wont work much longer, he could be an ideal short-term appointment for Wells Fargo on the East Coast.  By placing Jenkins in some kind of leadership role, Wells would send a signal to the defeated team that their voice still counts for morale purposes, he says. Granted, that signal is going to be a perfunctory, hollow signal. Once Jenkins retires, Wells could name one of its own to head the East Coast franchise, says Plath, who believes many of the banks top executives have dim career prospects, not just at Wells but throughout the industry.  Jenkins, Carroll and Steve Cummings, head of Wachovias corporate and investment bank, all have change-in-control agreements with the company that could pay them millions if they are terminated or choose to resign in the wake of a sale.  Jenkins would receive severance payments and a bonus totaling $17 million; Carrolls package would total $18 million; and Cummings would get $18.5 million, according to the companys most recent proxy statement.  A Wells spokeswoman says its too early to know whether a single executive will be named to lead the East Coast, or who that might be. Wells organizational structure features three main business lines: the community banking group, which serves consumers and small businesses with up to $20 million in sales; the wholesale banking group, which serves companies with annual sales over $10 million; and Wells Fargo Financial, which includes mortgage and auto-lending businesses.
