Exchange-traded funds have exploded onto the mainstream investor scene since the credit crisis intensified in September and left almost every investor's hand-picked stock portfolio in tatters.  The funds, which automatically track the upside or downside of any number of indexes, are expected to become even more popular in the coming years as they encroach on the traditional mutual-fund market by attracting investors in search of an easily traded diversified asset at a lower cost.  Howard Atkinson, president of ETF provider BetaPro Management, said the fund class now accounts for about 10% off the average daily trading volume on the Toronto Stock Exchange, up from about 2% just two years ago. The funds make regular appearances in the bourse's most active daily trades. 'The increase really started close to two years ago at the beginning of 2007,' Mr. Atkinson said, adding that the recent market volatility has driven demand for ETFs higher. He said this was because the products are transparent, low-cost and easily traded on the stock exchange rather than being priced once a day at net asset value like a mutual fund.  Mr. Atkinson said the surge in volume had boosted BetaPro's assets and allowed it to reduce the spreads on its products, making them even more attractive. 'So for investors, it's lower costs and increased liquidity, which is great,' he said. The increase in ETF volumes in Canada comes at a time when Canadian mutual funds are experiencing record outflows, said Barclays Global Investors Canada, which operates ETF provider iShares.  It said in a statement earlier this month that iShares' net inflows in September and October combined stood at $2.1-billion. That compares with mutual-fund redemptions of almost $13-billion for the same two months.  Figures released by the Investment Funds Institute of Canada yesterday showed that mutual-fund assets under management fell 9.8% in the October to $571.3-billion. Total industry assets were down 18.1% from the beginning of the year and 19.5% from a year earlier.  A large part of the sell-off was related to an exodus from the U. S. market as Canadians sought to lock in their investments amid a surge in the U. S. dollar. IFIC said U. S. money-market redemptions jumped to more than $1.5-billion in October, compared with less than $526-million the previous month.  Don Vialoux, an independent chartered market technician, said the wild swings in currency markets were making ETFs such as Claymore's Canadian dollar hedged U. S. Fundamental Index more attractive. The ETF, which is traded on the TSX, tracks U. S. stock movements but removes all exchange-rate risk. 'As the credit crisis starts to thaw, then you're going to see the U. S. dollar start to come down, so if you're investing in the U. S. market, you want to own a product that is fully hedged against a decline in the U. S. dollar,' Mr. Vialoux said. He said investors were attracted to ETFs because their diversification makes them less volatile than individual stocks. He said they were also much more affordable and quicker to trade than mutual funds. 'The cost structure of mutual funds relative to ETFs is way out of line,' he said, adding the average Canadian mutual fund charged a management expense ratio of around 250 basis points on an annual basis. On the other hand, the iShares Canadian S&amp;amp;P/TSX Capped Composite Index, for example, charged about 0.25% MER on an annual basis.
