 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   ANZ, CBA, GPT, SGP, AIO, SGT, TBG, TLS, IPL, AWB, MTS, WDC, FBU, IRN, OZL, TOE,   AP 2008-11-13   Morgan Stanley outlined plans to cut 10 per cent of staff in its biggest business, which covers everything from investment banking to stock trading.  The United States' No.2 securities firm, which converted into a bank holding company in September, plans to scale back its most capital-intensive businesses before the end of the year. The layoffs inside the institutional securities group follow a 10 per cent cut made earlier this year in the same group.  Morgan Stanley also plans to restructure its money management business by cutting 9 per cent of its staff. It was not immediately clear how many positions will ultimately be eliminated from the company's total ranks of about 44,000. 'The firm is reseizing its cost base and head count to match current opportunities in the market place, while reallocating resources to those businesses that provide an attractive risk-adjusted return on capital,' spokesman Mark Lake said.  The plan was unveiled by Morgan Stanley chief financial officer Colm Kelleher and co-president James Gorman at a conference in New York hosted by Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co, and comes a week after competitor Goldman Sachs Group Inc began laying off workers.  Slides from that presentation indicate that the firm has reduced leverage, with total assets falling below $US800 billion ($A1.22 trillion) from $US987 billion ($A1.5 trillion) during the fiscal third quarter. In addition, Morgan Stanley said 33 per cent of its assets are funded with equity, underwriting and deposits, up from 21 per cent in 2007.  Morgan Stanley also plans to downsize its prime brokerage, proprietary trading, principal investments and commercial real estate origination businesses. However, there are plans to build up areas such as foreign exchange, commodities and investment banking, according to the slides.  There has been speculation that Morgan Stanley, like rival Goldman Sachs, might consider acquisitions to help beef up its asset management and other deposit-taking businesses. Both became bank holding companies to stabilise their balance sheets after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc filed for bankruptcy in September.  Also on Wednesday, Morgan Stanley hired two top executives to help launch its new retail banking business from Wachovia Corp, which is being acquired by Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co.  Cece Sutton, Wachovia's head of retail and small business banking, was named president of the new group. And Jonathan Witter, who was head of distribution at Wachovia, will become chief operating officer of Morgan Stanley's retail bank.  Morgan Stanley also raised $US9 billion ($A13.69 billion) in a deal with Japan's Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc and received $US10 billion ($A15.21 billion) as part of the government bailout package.  Massive job cuts are likely to figure in the restructuring of Wall Street, with financial companies rolling back their payrolls to levels seen a few years ago. Goldman Sachs' announcement earlier this month that it will cut 10 per cent of its work force follows steep layoffs at now vanquished Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers.  New York Governor David Paterson said in late October that Wall Street job losses would top 45,000 and there have been some reports that it could hit as much as 70,000.
