A questionmark was hanging over the planned takeover of Scotlands second largest bank last night after the value of its shares plunged by almost 12%.HBOS stock is now worth half of what it was a fortnight ago  raising fears that the deal to buy it will have to be repriced to win the backing of Lloyds TSBs shareholders. Prime Minister Gordon Brown said he is confident the deal will go ahead.And across the Atlantic, President George Bush was forced to make a fourth address to the nation after his $700billion (388billion) banking bailout was vetoed. That affected banks share prices, but fears that world markets would suffer massive losses were wide of the mark and Britains Footsie closed up 83.7 on the day.Lloyds has offered 0.833 of its own shares  currently equivalent to 187p  for every HBOS share in a deal valuing the lender at 9.8billion.But HBOS shares were trading 33% below this at around 125p, raising questions over whether the deal will go through as it stands.Alex Potter, banking analyst at Collins Stewart, said: The market is implying that (the deal) does not happen. Numis Securities analyst Gurgit Kambo added: There are clearly some concerns. If shareholders vote against it, then it wont go through. But an HBOS spokesman said: This is the right deal for HBOS shareholders. We are already working on the integration planning process and it is full steam ahead. Share price volatility in bank stocks is part of the menu at the moment. There are still hopes that the bailout of US banks could yet be agreed by Congress, possibly tomorrow or Friday.That would help restore confidence in markets after the latest twists in the global banking crisis, which has seen Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley nationalised this week and a host of other players given state bailouts or taken over in Europe and the US.HBOS sought a takeover by Lloyds TSB after a run on its shares in the wake of the collapse of US investment bank Lehman Brothers, and concerns over higher funding costs on inter-bank loans.If the deal goes ahead, it will create a mega-bank with nearly a third of the UK mortgage market and more than 300billion of deposits.It will also have about 3,000 branches, leapfrogging Royal Bank of Scotlands 2,300 sites and dwarfing HSBC, which has around half.Gordon Brown said yesterday: This merger between HBOS and Lloyds TSB is a matter of great detail. Im confident from talking to people involved that this merger is going ahead. At the end of the day it is a matter for shareholders not a matter for government, and I believe that some of the issues that were raised at the beginning are being dealt with and I am pretty confident that both parties want to go ahead with this deal. Asked if he was prepared to bail out HBOS if the deal collapses, the prime minister said: We have already dealt with this through helping the merger take place. We changed the competition law to make it possible. First Minister Alex Salmond pressed for unlimited protection for sterling bank deposits as he and SNP Treasury spokesman Stewart Hosie met Chancellor Alistair Darling yesterday. He urged the UK Government to guarantee all sterling deposits held in the UK. Mr Salmonds spokesman said the measure was similar but not identical to action being taken in Ireland, and would instill confidence, protect depositors and prevent runs on individual banks. Mr Darlings view on the matter is not clear.
