The pivotal deal brokered by the government for Lloyds TSB to rescue beleaguered mortgage bank HBOS was in jeopardy last night after a plunge in the value of HBOS' shares. City investors fear that Lloyds is paying too much for the Scottish-based bank because its shares have collapsed since the deal was announced two weeks ago. Yesterday HBOS, owner of the country's biggest mortgage lender Halifax, was again the biggest faller in the FTSE 100 index of leading shares, dropping 13%. HBOS is now worth just 6.4bn but Lloyds TSB has agreed to pay 9.8bn. The differential in the price has heightened fears that the deal may not go through on the original terms which were agreed after the Prime Minister intervened to ensure the takeover could proceed.Last night Gordon Brown was forced to throw his weight behind the transaction which is crucial to the survival of HBOS. Brown said: 'This merger between HBOS and Lloyds TSB is a matter of great detail and I am confident from talking to people involved that this merger is going ahead. 'We have already dealt with this by helping the merger between these two banks. We have changed the competition law. The shareholders will eventually have to make a decision in a few days time about what is right for them, but I am confident from the leading parties that not only they want this to go ahead, but they are determined to do all the work to make this possible,' Brown said. Despite the intervention by the prime minister, Lloyds TSB shareholders are concerned that the bank is taking on too much risk in buying HBOS, which is dogged by concerns about its ability to find enough funds on the paralysed money markets to keep operating. There are fears that Lloyds will be weakened by the takeover.Robert Talbut, chief investment officer of Royal London Asset Management, said: 'There is a growing feeling that Lloyds could have struck a better deal and that there is pressure for the terms to be reassessed'. The deal is in shares rather than cash. The offer price fluctuates each day with the Lloyds TSB share price. The takeover - which will allow a combination of Lloyds TSB and HBOS to dominate the high street in breach of all the competition rules - is controversial for big City investors. Most of them own shares in HBOS and Lloyds. But those who own more Lloyds shares feel Lloyds is over-paying, while those who own more HBOS stock fear that HBOS has caved in for too low a price despite the precipitous collapse in its share price.A major investor confirmed last night that the deal was 'not secure'. 'The market is suggesting that the deal is not going to happen. And the market is usually right,' the investor said. The City is mesmerised by the difference between the HBOS share price and the value of the Lloyds TSB offer. Last night it stood at a discount of 35% with HBOS shares at 122.4p which is below the 188p value placed on the shares by the Lloyds TSB offer. In normal circumstances, the HBOS share price might be expected to trade closer to the offer price.Under the terms of the transaction, each HBOS share is worth 0.833 of Lloyds shares. But City sources now believe the terms should be scaled back to 0.6 Lloyds shares.Donald Tosh of private client stockbroker Spiers &amp;amp; Jeffrey said: 'The message from the discount is that there is a problem with the deal. Around the world every bust bank has been bailed out by the respective governments. But in the UK, Lloyds is bailing out HBOS and that's why the huge discount has emerged.' Last night Lloyds insisted the deal was on track. Chief executive Eric Daniels said: 'Market conditions are obviously difficult. But the acquisition of HBOS remains a fantastic opportunity to create the UK's leading financial services and to create great value for both sets of shareholders'. A spokesman added: 'We are working diligently towards completing the transaction and a huge amount of work is going on behind the scenes' While City sources believe it is implausible that the takeover will fall apart given the role the government has played in brokering the marriage by allowing the competition rule book to be rewritten, they are acknowledging the share price movements indicate that the market has concerns.The support of shareholders in both banks is crucial. Under the structure of the transaction, Lloyds needs 50% support from its shareholders to complete the deal, while HBOS requires 75% of its shareholders to support the deal. The government told Lloyds it would ensure the deal was cleared by the competition authorities, while Lloyds promised to ensure it would keep the mortgage market afloat, particularly by offering loans to first-time buyers. HBOS has a 20% share of the mortgage market - more than any another other lender - and has 1,100 branches and 70,000 staff. Combined with Lloyds, the new group's branch network will jump to 3,000 and its mortgage market share will jump to 28%. The group would run a third of all the current accounts in the UK, have 140,000 staff and retail deposits worth 321bn.
