 Previous of Companies Next Barclays Royal Bank Of Scotland Group HBOS Lloyds TSB Group Shares in RBS, the owner of mortgage lender Natwest, plunged more than 39 per cent in early trading - wiping more than 10billion off the value. It had already suffered a fall of 20 per cent on Monday. Shares in HBOS dropped by as much as 13 per cent, Barclays fell by up to 15 per cent and Lloyds TSB by 21 per cent. The declines came as British banks told the Government they support its plan to take substantial shareholdings in return for an injection of billions of pounds. The chief executives of RBS, Barclays, Lloyds TSB and HBOS met the chancellor, Alistair Darling, on Monday night and other senior members of the Tripartite Authorities. The banks are understood to have told Mr Darling that they broadly back a plan for the Government to take equity stakes in return for capital injections. RBS declined to comment on its share price movement or the reports of a plea for a Government capital boost. However, the bank confirmed that Sir Fred Goodwin, the chief executive, was part of the team of banking bosses involved in last nights meeting with the Chancellor. A Barclays spokesman said it had categorically not requested any capital from the Government. Analysts have predicted the Government might need to pump between 30bn and 50bn into the banks. Sources said they expect a plan of action to be hammered out over the next couple of days. The cash injection would be in the form of preference shares, and it is possible the Government would hand over some cash now while also saying there would be a pot of cash available if banks need money several months down the line. There is a realisation that some of the more radical options have to be put on the table, a senior banking source said. While unenthusiastic about part nationalisation, the banks hope that if the Government helps to bolster their capital it might provide a much-needed boost of confidence to investors. The meeting which also included Bank of England governor Mervyn King and senior figures from the Financial Services Authority came as banks bore the brunt of the pain as the global credit crisis lurched through another day of turmoil with markets around the world struggling to come to terms with a deteriorating financial landscape. The UKs five largest banks saw a combined 20bn wiped off their collective value equivalent to 10pc on Monday. It came the FTSE suffered its worst daily drop on record. Shares in RBS were hit particularly hard after its credit rating was cut late on Monday. Ratings agency Standard &amp;amp; Poors yesterday warned that RBSs financial profile may continue to weaken and a combination of mixed earnings prospects, deteriorating credit risk in its key geographies, and difficult market conditions. 
