LONDON (Reuters) - Confidence in Royal Bank of Scotland drained at an alarming pace this week as the prospect that Britain will pump taxpayers' money into several banks raised fears about balance sheets across the sector.RBS, now Britain's fourth-biggest bank, was hit hardest by a collapse in brittle investor confidence, and its shares crashed 39 percent on Tuesday to add to a 20 percent tumble the day before. Rival HBOS more than halved over the two days.The selloff began after media reports that Chancellor Alistair Darling was considering a part-nationalisation of the battered sector.The reported plan intended to shore up balance sheets and rebuild investor and customer confidence raised concern that banks are more in need of capital than the market had thought.Also damaging was a lack of detail, the threat that the investments of existing shareholders would be diluted and interest payable on the capital could eat into profits. 'Strengthened capital positions and a guarantee to fill any wholesale funding gap would remove the risk of failure for the banks involved, but what's left for ordinary shareholders is difficult to assess,' said Mark Phin, analyst at Keefe, Bruyette &amp;amp; Woods. Reflecting that, the cost of insuring RBS's debt fell.European banks face similar problems. A complex takeover of Belgian-Dutch bank Fortis over the past week has added to pressure on rival Dexia and increased the prospect of more state help.A bailout of Germany's Hypo Real Estate also raised the spectre that more state rescues are inevitable, and Iceland's government is fighting to save its banks.By injecting capital into several banks at the same time, Britain's government wants to remove the stigma that one bank needs the funds, especially as they have already raised over 20 billion pounds ($35 billion) this year.RBS and Barclays denied they had asked the government for capital, after the BBC said they and Lloyds/HBOS would each receive 15 billion pounds -- half now and half later if needed.HOW? WHEN? WHY?How a deal is struck in Britain and what it means for investors is ratcheting up tension and with details of a plan expected in days. Talks on the crisis are due to be held later on Tuesday, chaired by . The structure of any rescue deal is unclear, but one option is the government buying preference shares and receiving an annual dividend, similar to an investment in U.S. bank Goldman Sachs by revered investor Warren Buffett last month. Buffett bought $5 billion (2.9 billioin pounds) of Goldman perpetual preferred stock that carries a 10 percent dividend.That raises the prospect that bank profits will be sliced by the injection: paying 10 percent interest on a 10 billion capital injection would eat up 1 billion of profit at a time when earnings are already under strain.The government is keen for taxpayers to benefit from any uplift in share price.Other mechanisms could include offering warrants or convertible shares for the government's cash pledge.RBS, Barclays and HBOS have all rebuilt capital, but they are faced with more writedowns on risky assets and a lengthy economic slowdown.A 7.5 billion pound capital boost would lift Barclays' core tier 1 capital ratio by 2 percentage points, lift RBS's ratio by 1.4 percentage points and lift Lloyds/HBOS by 1.5 percentage points, KBW's Phin estimated in a note.Stronger capital could encourage banks to lend to each other, and boosting liquidity remains the pressing issue, some analysts said, but others criticised the government's handling of the situation.Ian Gordon, analyst at Exane BNP Paribas said: 'The Bank of England initiative (to boost funds available to banks) announced last Friday was helpful. The chatter today about capital is not helpful and is not the central issue. I think (the government's) handling has been clumsy to say the least,' he added. Governments across Europe are under the same scrutiny. Blanket guarantees for depositors in Germany and Ireland have offered reassurance to savers, but drawn criticism from other countries for being anti-competitive.(Editing by Erica Billingham)
