LONDON, Oct. 7 -- The British government was preparing Tuesday night to announce an emergency plan to inject tens of billions of dollars in capital into U.K. banks, which suffered a second consecutive day of dramatic losses in share prices. Alistair Darling, Britain's chancellor of the exchequer, or finance minister, said he would make an announcement about steps to put banks 'on a longer-term sound footing' before jittery financial markets opened Wednesday morning. Analysts and media reports said Darling's announcement would probably involve a bank recapitalization worth up to 50 billion pounds, about $88 billion at current exchange rates. Stabilizing London, the world's second-largest finance center, is a key task in calming the world crisis. Two major British banks have been rescued in recent days, and the central bank has pumped billions into money markets, but new weaknesses continue to emerge. Although spokesmen for Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who huddled with Darling and other economic advisers Tuesday evening, said any plan would be presented in a 'calm and orderly way,' the plan was clearly spurred by a second consecutive day of tremendous sell-off of bank shares on the London exchange. Although the London market overall leveled off after a historic drop Monday, bank stocks took another beating after word leaked that Brown and top bank officials had met Monday night to discuss a possible bailout. Brown has given no indication that he favors a move as broad as the $700 billion U.S. bailout, but analysts and bank officials said he thinks a major infusion of taxpayer capital is required to thaw Britain's frozen credit markets. Several analysts said the plan would probably include a provision for the government to receive preferred shares in the banks, ensuring that the taxpayer would benefit when business improved. Attention focused Tuesday on the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), which dropped 39.2 percent to a 15-year low that wiped about 10 billion pounds, or more than $17 billion, from its value. The troubled Halifax Bank of Scotland (HBOS), which is being bought by Lloyds TSB, was down 41.5 percent. Lloyds, meanwhile, lost 13 percent of its share value, and Barclays fell by 9.2 percent. Officials are considering up to 15 billion pounds ($26 billion) each for at least three large banks -- RBS, Lloyds and Barclays -- according to media reports, with half paid now and half delivered as needed later. Britain has opposed a European Union-wide bailout fund but, in the meantime, is proceeding on its own. Henk Potts, an equity strategist at Barclays Stockbrokers -- a division of the banking group -- said the government's rescue plan would be 'a huge, historical' move. 'The market needs something, and the sooner the better,' Potts said. 'It's a sector that's devoid of confidence.' Potts and other analysts said action was needed even though share-price losses suffered by major banks do not necessarily reflect the reality of their financial stability. 'Clearly there's a wave of fear and uncertainty in banking stocks, and people are throwing valuation and fundamentals out the window,' he said. He added: 'Clearly the authorities needed to offer a level of confidence regardless of whether the banks needed it or not.' 
