 Photo: GETTY FFollowing talks with Bank of England Governor Mervyn King and Financial Services Authority chairman Lord Turner, Mr Darling said he would release full details before markets open. The Bank of England has been putting substantial sums into the market today and it is ready to do more when that is needed, he said in a brief holding statement. We have been working closely with the Governor of the Bank of England, the Financial Services Authority and financial institutions to put banks on a longer term sound footing. I intend to make a statement before the markets open tomorrow morning and I will be making a further statement to the House of Commons later in the day. The chief executives of British banks took part in a conference call with the Government at the end of a day of turmoil in the industry. The talks focused on what form of equity the Government would get in return for any injection of taxpayers' money. The conference call came after reports that bank chief executives had asked the Chancellor, Alistair Darling, for a 50 billion bailout, were sharply denied by both Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and Barclays. The chief executives of RBS, Barclays, Lloyds TSB and HBOS all met Mr Darling on Monday night, along with other senior financial authority figures, to discuss the crisis. Shares in RBS, the owner of mortgage lender Natwest, plunged almost 40pc in early trading wiping 10bn off its value on reports that the bank had asked the Treasury for money. Shares in the bank had already suffered a fall of 20pc on Monday. Shares in Lloyds TSB were down more than twenty per cent at one point and other banks recorded double-digit percentage falls. The market panic saw Mr Darling come under fire for failing to confirm details of the Government's plan. John Cridland, the Deputy Director-General of the CBI, said the Government must introduce a rescue package immediately if confidence was to be restored to the financial sector. 'We want to see further government action - some form of circuit breaker - to stem the loss of confidence in the financial markets and limit the damage to the wider economy,' he said. Mr Darling is understood to have favoured holding out for a pan-European bailout and is thought tp be angry at being 'bounced' into acting by the banks. 
