Previous of Images Next Lloyds TSB is renegotiating its takeover of HBOS. Photo: GETTY Royal Bank of Scotland Photo: AFP/GETTY Despite the FTSE-100 rising, shares in HBOS had dropped another 25 per cent by midday, with Lloyds TSB having lost nine per cent and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) down 6.7 per cent. The banks have been ordered to stop paying dividends to shareholders until they are in a position to pay back the public purse.Shares in Barclays and HSBC - the two banks which have made clear they do not need to take the Government's money - have risen, by 5.3 and 7.9 per cent respectively.Mr Brown earlier hailed the Government's plan to take large stakes in the three banks as proof that it will be a 'rock of stability' during the financial crisis.Confirming that the Treasury will use billions of taxpayers' money to buy fresh capital, Mr Brown said: 'The Government can not just leave people on their own to be buffeted about.' 'For savers, for small businesses, and for homeowners, we must in an uncertain and unstable world be the rock of stability on which the British people can depend,' the Prime Minister told a Downing Street news conference.The FTSE-100 jumped by about five per cent within 10 minutes of trading - a rise it had maintained by the end of the morning. The deal will see RBS take 20 billion of capital from the Government, effectively handing taxpayers a 63 per cent stake in the company. A further 17 billion is to be injected into HBOS and Lloyds TSB, meaning that if their plan to merge goes through, 41 per cent of the new 'superbank' would effectively be owned by the public. Until then, the Government will take 58 per cent of HBOS and 30 per cent in Lloyds TSB.Mr Brown insisted that tough conditions had been attached to the deal and that taxpayers would get their money back. He said that none of the banks' directors would receive cash bonuses this year.Announcing that a new body would be set up to oversee the Government's stakes in the banks, he said that ministers would not be involved in running them. 'Over time we intend to dispose of all these investments in an orderly way. In the meantime, our shares will be held at arm's length,' he said. Mr Brown added that the Government will appoint independent directors to the banks' boards - three to RBS and two to Lloyds TSB-HBOS should their merger go ahead. The chairman and chief executive of RBS - Sir Fred Goodwin and Tom McKillop and of HBOS - Andy Hornby and Lord Stevenson - will all step down, though Mr Brown insists the Government did not force this upon the banks. None will receive severance payments.The deal will also see RBS and Lloyds TSB-HBOS forced to raise their mortgage and small-business lending to 2007 levels - far higher than they currently stand. Mr Brown said the 'unprecedented but essential' move was 'something that matters for every family and business in Britain.' He added: 'To let the chips fall where they may would be the height of irresponsibility.' Describing the move as a reaction to 'exceptional, extraordinary' times, the Chancellor, Alistair Darling, admitted that Government borrowing would have to soar to fund the deal. However he too insisted that taxpayers would get their money back. Mr Darling said that the intervention was a crucial step in the international fight-back against the financial crisis, and that other governments would now follow Britain's example. 'This is a model that other countries are going to adopt, because this is a truly global problem,' he told BBC Radio 4. Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, is expected later to confirm a similar 470 billion (373 billion) package to rescue German banks, while other European leaders have also agreed to formulate similar deals. The morning's developments also saw Lloyds TSB insist that its takeover of HBOS is still set to go ahead, despite continuing fears that it will collapse.However, it conceded that the deal will be done at a far lower price than had previously been expected, meaning bad news for HBOS shareholders. The revised terms will see HBOS shareholders receive 0.605 Lloyds TSB shares for every one of their HBOS shares - down from an original level of 0.8. Meanwhile, Barclays has insisted that it will raise 6.5 billion in new capital itself and does not need the Government's help. As well as a cash call to the market, the bank will not pay a 2 billion dividend to its shareholders. HSBC last week injected 750 million of capital from its parent company into its British arm. A spokesman reiterated on Monday that it had no plans to use the Government scheme.
