Halifax stock plunges 14 per cent amid speculation that Lloyds TSB will renegotiate offerSearch Search GoIndependent.co.uk WebBookmark &amp;amp; ShareLloyds TSB is coming under increasing pressure to attempt to renegotiate its planned takeover of HBOS as leading shareholders press it on the widening difference between the value of its offer for the bank and HBOS's plunging share price.Eric Daniels, Lloyds' chief executive, said: 'Market conditions are obviously difficult but the acquisition of HBOS remains a fantastic opportunity to create the UK's leading financial services group and to create great value for both sets of shareholders.'HBOS shares sank almost 14 per cent yesterday, making the bank the biggest fallers in the FTSE 100, on speculation that Lloyds would renegotiate the price of its all-share offer for Britain's biggest mortgage lender. Lloyds shares rose 4.3 per cent to 226.5p.The closing share prices valued Lloyds' offer at 188.7p a share. HBOS's shares closed at 122.4p, a massive 35 per cent discount to the value of the deal, indicating severe market fears that the transaction will not go ahead or will be changed to favour Lloyds.When the takeover  valued at about 10bn at yesterday's close  was announced two weeks ago, some HBOS shareholders said the bank had sold out too cheaply to Lloyds. But with markets in panic about the US's ailing $700bn financial bailout and fears increasing about banks' capital and funding, pressure has built on Lloyds to seek a lower price.Cazenove analysts said on Monday that Lloyds should raise capital and write down HBOS assets promptly. It said the terms of the deal could change, echoing Credit Suisse analysts who have said the deal is not a good one for Lloyds despite more than 1bn of cost savings.Renegotiating a takeover price is highly unusual because to trigger a 'material adverse change' clause requires a catastrophic event.The authorities are keeping a close eye on the deal, which has the full backing of the Government. They are concerned that jitters about HBOS's security could force the Government to intervene as it did when Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley was partly nationalised on Monday.Jane Coffey, the head of equities at Royal London Asset Management, said Lloyds should seek more support from the Government. 'Shareholders are concerned about the lack of capital. If I were the Lloyds management, I would be pressing for a guarantee or injection of capital,' she told Bloomberg.Royal Bank of Scotland shares fell up to 13 per cent yesterday but clawed back most of their losses. The bank was forced to reassure the market that the bailout of Fortis  the Benelux bank that was part of RBS's consortium that bought ABN Amro last year  would not cause problems for RBS.Fortis received a 11.2bn rescue from Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg and plans to sell its ABN Amro assets. Analysts said a fire sale might raise only a third of the 24bn Fortis paid.RBS shares rose on hopes that the US bailout, rejected by Congress on Monday, would be revived. RBS is one of the biggest banks in the US and could make use of the bailout fund to offload assets into the 'bad bank'. RBS shares closed down 1.1 per cent while Barclays shares lost 2.3 per cent.Interesting? Click here to explore further
