 Sao Paulo trading resumes after an automatic cut-off which occurs when the Ibovespa index loses more than 10 percent Photo: AFP The chief executives of Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays, Lloyds TSB and HBOS last night met the chancellor, Alistair Darling, and other senior members of the Tripartite Authorities. The banks are understood to have told Mr Darling that they broadly back a plan for the Government to take equity stakes in return for capital injections. Analysts yesterday predicted the Government might need to pump between 30bn and 50bn into the banks. Sources said last night they expect a plan of action to be hammered out over the next couple of days. The cash injection would be in the form of preference shares, and it is possible the Government would hand over some cash now while also saying there would be a pot of cash available if banks need money several months down the line. There is a realisation that some of the more radical options have to be put on the table, a senior banking source said. While unenthusiastic about part nationalisation, the banks hope that if the Government helps to bolster their capital it might provide a much-needed boost of confidence to investors. The meeting which also included Bank of England governor Mervyn King and senior figures from the Financial Services Authority came as banks bore the brunt of the pain as the global credit crisis lurched through another day of turmoil with markets around the world struggling to come to terms with a deteriorating financial landscape. The UKs five largest banks saw a combined 20bn wiped off their collective value equivalent to 10pc as the FTSE100 index of leading shares witnessed its largest one day percentage decline since Black Monday in October 1987. It suffered its biggest points fall in history, dropping 391.06. Not a single Footsie constituent ended the day in positive territory on what amounted to its third-biggest one day percentage fall on record. The shockwaves were felt around the world, with major European markets experiencing their worst day in four years, while in America, the Dow Jones traded below the 10,000 points mark for the first time since October 2004. In the UK, the FTSE100 closed down 391.06 points at 4589.19, as more than 93bn was wiped from the value of the countrys largest companies. Royal Bank of Scotland and HBOS were among the biggest losers, down 20pc respectively, while Barclays, HSBC and LloydsTSB all ended the day in negative territory. Continental Europe witnessed similar financial carnage, with the CAC-40 in Paris and the DAX in Frankfurt closing down 9pc and 7pc respectively. Emerging markets were not left out, with Brazils Bovespa index off 10pc, while Russias Micex index tumbled 18pc before trading was halted. The volatility on the stock market played out in the currencies arena, with sterling falling to its lowest level in two-and-a-half years, dropping more than 4 cents to $1.7339 and hitting an almost five-year low against the Japanese yen. 
