Asia's banks  mainly Standard Chartered and HSBC Holdings  are expected to step in with loans and boost their presence across the region as the credit crisis has forced big Western rivals to retreat.  With the exception of Japanese lenders, domestic banks are poised to steal market share in Asia from Royal Bank of Scotland, Citigroup and others with big government stakes.  The three banks are among those expected to seize on opportunities in corporate lending, trade finance and loan syndication.  DBS Group and United Overseas Bank, Singapore's top two banks, and Australia &amp; New Zealand Banking Group, all still relatively well capitalised, are also angling for the big corporate loans that were once the territory of international, Western banks.'On the commercial banking, I do think there will be a clear benefit to the domestic players,' said Sunil Garg, Asia bank analyst at JP Morgan in Hong Kong. 'So, if RBS or Citi is less active, for example, in providing loans in the corporate sector or trade finance, then I think some of that business will go to local players.'However, any expansion in Asia will be tempered by caution, as lenders are wary of spending too much capital and as rising bankruptcies spark higher bad-loan costs. Hit by losses on toxic investments, both RBS and Citigroup have taken hefty government bailouts. Bank of America and UBS, also recipients of state aid, have, like RBS, sold stakes in Chinese banks as they try to shore up capital at home.  For RBS, its future in Asia is uncertain. The bank is selling its Asian retail and commercial banking business, and keeping its investment banking units. ANZ and Standard Chartered are among those considering bids for the Asia assets, sources have said.'RBS will remain an international bank and we will continue to lend in our key markets, one of which is Asia-Pacific,' said Yuk Min Hui, a spokeswoman for the bank in Hong Kong.  Citigroup is still winning underwriting and advisory mandates in Asia, where it has built a wide network and earned large profits over the years. And it continues to lend to big clients.  This week it was among lenders on a S$1.08 billion (Dh2.61 trillion) loan facility for Singapore Telecommunications. It has also been reported to be working on loan refinancing for India's Tata Motors Ltd.'We continue to commit capital to key clients and are also helping them to access the capital markets,' said Benjamin Ng, Managing Director and head of syndicate and acquisition finance for Citigroup in Asia Pacific.  But uncertainty weighs on the US firm as well, in part because of the government's new role at the bank. Whether Washington will endorse Citi expansion efforts in Asia remains unclear. Citigroup recently merged its Asian commercial and investment banking groups. 'Everyone is waiting to see what happens. So, yes, there's a gap in the market and I think we're the obvious contender to fill it,' ANZ CEO Mike Smith told a news conference. 
