Late last year the Federal Reserve approved changes to credit card regulations that would make it harder for credit card companies to make arbitrary or unpredictable changes to customers accounts.  Some of the changes include blocking card companies from applying higher interest rates on existing balances despite paying on time or keeping under your limit, late fees cannot be charged without giving consumers at least 21 days to make a payment, banning the two-cycle billing and requiring that any payment consumers make beyond the minimum be applied to the balance with the highest interest rate or spread proportionally to all balances.  Despite the fact that consumers are already suffering from lack of credit while card companies are increasing interest rates, these changes wont be required until July 2010.  So what are the credit card companies doing in the meantime? Canceling cards at random and substantially increasing interest rates, even if you are always on time and never over your limit, lowering limits when they arbitrarily decide that you have too much debt. Numerous people had a shock delivered to them over the holidays as credit cards companies just cancelled cards or limited credit without informing their customer.  Even people with extremely good credit who might not use their card often have been told their limits have been lowered, interest raised or the card cancelled. This can affect you in many ways. Not only do you lose your credit card, but your credit score will more than likely take a hit.  What can you do about all of this? Complain. Complain often and to as many politicians and consumer protection bureaus as possible. File complaints to:  Senator Jeff Merkley, 202 /224-8845, senator@merkley.senate.gov  Senator Ron Wyden, 202/224-5244, www.wyden.senate.gov  Congressman Greg Walden, 202/225-6730, (800) 533-3303, greg.walden@mail.house.gov  Customer Assistance Group, 800/613-6743, www.occ.treas.gov  Oregon Attorney General's Consumer Hotline, 877/ 877-9392, consumer.hotline@doj.state.or.us  Comptroller of the Currency, 202/874-4700.  Better Business Bureau. www.bbb.org.  Division of Credit Practices, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C. 20580, www.ftc.gov.  Bank of America Bad to Consumers  Although Bank of America recently received $25 million in bailout money from taxpayers they are one of the worst credit card companies and have responded to their windfall by jacking up interest rates on consumer credits arbitrarily and without specific justification, other than its legal and we can do what we want.  On the internet youll find hundreds of complaints against Bank of America (www.consumeraffairs.com/finance/bofa) stating that BoA is an unconscionable perpetrator of opportunism in the name of business practices. They deserve to be sanctioned. If the mail gets your payment there a day late (according to them), fees are off the charts and there is no working with them.  If you have a bad experience with a credit card company such as Bank of America it will only get better if you register a complaint.  
