Hey, Answer Girl --  With all the doom and gloom facing our housing market, we are hearing of huge losses by the big banks due to bad home loans. So, if a person buys a $200,000 house with no money down, they have to purchase a PMI that insures the bank for 20 percent of the value, in this case $40,000. When the home is foreclosed on, the bank only needs to sell the house for $160,000 to break even. From what I can see, prices have not fallen that much, nor have I heard of any insurance company outside of AIG in trouble. What's up with that?  -- John  I have math-related nightmares that look easier to solve than your question.  Luckily, a good friend, Lauren Purtell, has an accounting degree and is a finance associate for a major banking chain. She -- in this instance, at least -- has all the answers.  While banks do sometimes have to foreclose on properties, foreclosure situations aren't ideal for either the bank or the customer. 'Banks are not in the business of selling homes or properties,' Purtell said. 'It ends up being a lot more trouble for the bank.'The costs associated with the foreclosure process and selling the foreclosed home are rather large, and the longer a home goes unsold, the more a bank has to make on the home to 'break even.' Right now, particularly because of the 'doom and gloom,' as you call it, there's a lot of housing inventory and not a lot of people in the market for a house.  Also, banks earn money based on interest. If the bank loaned $200,000 to the original homeowner, that means the bank was essentially loaning other people's money and was counting on the interest earned to pay those people back. So selling a home for the principal amount of the loan won't help the bank, as it has to pay interest on its deposits and funds used for the original mortgage.  The biggest problem in the mortgage industry sprang from adjustable-rate mortgages, which are mortgages with an interest rate that increases at set intervals. When the banks end up with those unpaid mortgages on the books, they've realized virtually none of the profit they were supposed to receive on the house, because the homeowners didn't pay much of the interest on the house before they stopped paying altogether. On these homes, the bank has to sell for an even higher amount to 'break even' on the amount loaned.  As for insurance companies like AIG and private mortgage insurance plans -- Purtell said those aren't really related to the credit loss and home price problems banks are experiencing.'That type of insurance policy does not play into the picture with the financial crisis,' she said. 'The failure of insurance companies has to do with other economic factors, not the PMI plans.'Answer addition  In Tuesday's Answer Girl, I somehow managed to count to 50 with only 48 states printed. I left out Vermont and Arizona, two very important states, each in their own way. Sorry, residents or former residents of these states. It was a typographical error and an honest mistake!  Contact reporter Megan Lee at (307) 266-0616 or megan.lee@trib.com.  Ask Answer Girl  Answer Girl tackles questions about Casper, the universe and everything else. Submit your questions by email to megan.lee@trib.com, or call Megan Lee at 266-0616. You can also write to Answer Girl, Box 80, 170 Star Lane, Casper, WY, 82602. 
