OK, the bailout bill passed.  Obviously these are some dire circumstances and we need $2,000 from every single person in the United States to go to these huge firms to keep them from failing.  Of course.THEN WHY, may I ask, did AIG Executives spend $500,000 of their taxpayer bailout loan at a spa over the weekend?AND WHY are these men giving themselves millions in bonuses from our pockets?  I can't even afford to get my car air conditioning fixed!AND NOW it is coming out that AIG saw it coming.  They saw it coming months ago and they did nothing, because they knew they would get away with it, because they knew they were "Too big to fail."Something like this happened in the past:  It was called Marie Antionette, and it was called "Let them eat cake," and she was tried for treason and she got her fucking head cut off.I'm paying for this man's vacation?!!(Martin J. Sullivan, A.I.G.s chief, said he underestimated the problems.Josh Haner/The New York Times)WASHINGTON POSTAIG Spa Trip Fuels Fury on Hill Pressing Executives to Concede Mistakes, Lawmakers Blast Them About Bonuses By Peter Whoriskey Washington Post Staff WriterWednesday, October 8, 2008; Page D01      For some people at AIG, the insurance giant rescued last month with an $85 billion federal bailout, the good times keep rolling.  Joseph Cassano, the financial products manager whose complex investments led to American International Group's near collapse, is receiving $1 million a month in consulting fees.   Former chief executive Martin J. Sullivan, whose three-year tenure coincided with much of the company's ill-fated risk-taking, is receiving a $5 million performance bonus.  And just last week, about 70 of the company's top performers were rewarded with a week-long stay at the luxury St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, Calif., where they ran up a tab of $440,000.   At a House committee hearing yesterday, Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.) showed a photograph of the resort, which overlooks the Pacific Ocean, and reported expenses for AIG personnel including $200,000 for rooms, $150,000 for meals and $23,000 for the spa.  "Less than a week after the taxpayers rescued AIG, company executives could be found wining and dining at one of the most exclusive resorts in the nation," Waxman said in kicking off an angry hearing of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. "We will ask whether any of this makes sense."   "They were getting their manicures, their pedicures, massages, their facials while the American people were paying their bills," thundered Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.).   The gathering was planned before the bailout as a reward for life insurance agents, a company spokesman said, and fewer than 10 AIG executives were present."Shame on you, Mr. Sullivan," said Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.), noting that Sullivan was not giving up any of his $5 million performance bonus.
