 Code Pink protesters give former AIG CEO Martin Sullivan piece of their mind. (Photo by Alex Wong, Getty Images.)  by Frank James  Yesterday it was Lehman Brothers, the bankrupt investment bank, that got the congressional autopsy treatment. Today it was AIG, the insurance giant saved from Lehman's fate by the kindness of strangers, that is, taxpayers who ponied up $85 billion to bail them out long enough so the company can be disbanded in an orderly way.  It was also a chance for Congress to rake a couple of AIG executives-- Martin Sullivan and Robert Willumstad--over the coals which they did, though it wasn't the most brutal coal-raking ever witnessed on Capitol Hill.  Congressional outrage settled on a few choice areas:   One, huge pay packages received by senior AIG executives even though it was clear the company's earnings would take a hit because of bad financial-market bets made by some of its executives.   Two, the overly optimistic reports some of those same executives made to the public and investors at a time when the company's financial situation was deteriorating.  Three, the failure of top managers to accept blame for the company being put in such perilous financial straits. Listening to them, it was all the fault of the accountants who made them mark down the value of investments few people wanted to buy who caused AIG's woes.   Four, an executive in AIG's London office who was fired for making many of the bad financial bets that eventually swamped the company's finances but who was given a $1 million a month consulting contract with the company and   Five, the $500,000 or so AIG spent on a week-long retreat orchestrated by one of its subsidiaries for executives. It occurred a week after the federal government's bailout of the company. Even the former AIG execs had to admit the retreat held at a very pricey resort was probably a bad idea. It took a while for any lawmaker to use the word "shame" but deep into the hearing it came from Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA) whose district takes in part of San Francisco uttered the word:   SPEIER: To both of you gentlemen, I want to applaud you for the stiff upper lip you have shown today under intense questioning. But I've got tell you that you make a shameful profile of corporate America.  To you, Mr. Willumstad, I will say thank you for forgoing your golden parachute. And for you, Mr. Sullivan, shame on you!  That stiff upper lip line might have been a shot at Sullivan's British accent. She was definitely issuing a verbal smackdown for Sullivan who said in response to an earlier lawmaker that he didn't plan to part with any of lucre he received from AIG before he was fired in June.   Willumstad said he hadn't received any large sum on exit. Then again, he had only been with AIG for three months before it had to be bailed out. 
