Times were when you heard the name AAA, that you would immediately imagine maps as well as emergency road service for which the organization was most famous. However, with time AAA auto insurance is one more service that the American Automobile Association is becoming known which comes in handy when you are driving around in your vehicle. It is a reality and when you get yourself AAA auto insurance, you will know that like many other Americans you are in good hands. A Very Popular Source For Auto Insurance AAA auto insurance is one of the more popular insurance covers available in the market today with almost a quarter of all Americans having such an auto insurance. The AAA was founded on 4th March 1902 at which time it was given to enrolling local as well as regional motor clubs having international associates as well. Some of the other notable Automobile Associations associated with AAA include the Canadian Automobile Association and the Automobile Association in the United Kingdom. Anyone driving in the United States should ensure that they have the proper automobile insurance, which should at least cover liability, if not the whole package. AAA has been giving service to Americans for more than seventy years so you know that when you get AAA auto insurance you are getting the benefit of years of industry experience that is backed by proven service. It should thus be among your preferred auto insurance sources when thinking about insuring your vehicle. With AAA auto insurance you get a number of benefits including protection for others as well as their property, protection for your own vehicle, as also protection for the owner of the vehicle and also the passengers traveling in it. When your vehicle meets with an accident and collides with another vehicle and you are at fault, then you can avail of limited coverage and you can also get the cost of your legal defense covered under your AAA auto insurance policy. Other facets of AAA auto insurance include liability coverage, uninsured/underinsured motorist coverage, medical payment coverage, and coverage for damage to your own vehicle. You can also get personal automobile policy with AAA auto insurance, though you should also be certain about the exclusions and limitations so that you are buying only the policy that suits your needs and pay accordingly. Besides the usual insurance coverage, you can also get additional benefits from your AAA auto insurance including getting your battery tested, having approved auto repair, obtaining travel related documents, and getting emergency road service such as getting your car towed up to one hundred miles. More About Insurances You Must Read:  AIG auto insurance Is The Second Largest Auto Insu&amp;#8230; The Break Down Of Auto Insurance What You Need For Your Auto Insurance Search The Importance of Auto Insurance Ratings Purchasing Discount Auto Insurance Considerations When You Compare Auto Insurance Rat What is Mercury Auto Insurance? The Pros And Cons Of Obtaining Instant Auto Insura Finding Auto Insurance in Pennsylvania All About Auto insurance companies Helpful Information When Searching For Auto Insura  
