   cdt3 wrote: It is BS about Beno being overpaid. I researched ESPN.com and looked at the Depth Chart for the Western Conference teams close to half of the backup Guards make between 5-7 million (Vucajic, Barbosa, BJax, Beno, Jason 9mil Terry, Conley, Buckner, Jaric, Mo Pete, Antonio Daniels, Manu(10mil), JR Smith, Earl Watson, and Korver). 14 players out of the 15 teams. So Beno making $5.5 is average. He has 4 years left after this year which is probably a year or two too long but he will be 30 when it is expires. It is a minor gamble taking his contract. Paying a starter $12 mil plus for 5 years who may or may not get a career ending injury and not play for many years is a major gamble. Every move you make is a gamble and part of the game. There will be other teams looking for scoring punch with a player like Bobby Jackson in Beno.  And just like of the players in the NBA are mediocre it means that they are average. Most players are average. Some are above average, some below but most are mediocre!    Vucajic is a much better offensive player than Beno Same with Barbosa BJax is expiring Terry is soo much better than Beno its not even funny. He could be starting for many teams. Conley, well i dont know where u got that number. His QO is in that range, but that is like 2 or 3 yrs from now Buckner is virtually an expiring.  Jaric is overpaid and everyone will tell you that. But I would still take him over Beno.  Mo Pete is overpaid. Daniels still expires by 2010, and I would rather have him over Beno. Manu - really? come on, thats not even fair to start that comparison JR Smith is way more talented than Beno. Watson is another deal that expired by 2010 and is better than Beno. Korver is a very good shooter. Mabye a little overpaid, but better than Beno.   This entire list is a bunch of guys who are apparently getting paid the same or slightly more than Beno, but are all much better than him. So all you did was help prove why Beno is on a bad contract. All of those contracts are shorter than his, so they all have more value.   And it is a major gamble taking on Beno's contract. What if he regresses? Then he has a long contract for an even worse player. What if he gets hurt? Someone is paying a backup who doesn't play a lot of money over a long period of time. And if a star player has a career ending injury ,there is a part in the CBA which helps deal with that. Insurance pays it. Have you been paying any attention to the Darius Miles situation?
