My 16-year-old son and his two 16-year-old friends shoveled Ralph Wilson Stadium on Christmas Eve. They were excited, as this was their first real job. When they came home, they were tired but proud of   what they had done. They were looking forward to the following Friday (1/2/09) when they could pick up their checks. By the time this whole fiasco was over the three boys no longer felt proud but  rather they felt used and humiliated.     They were not given any certain time to pick up the checks. Therefore, on Friday we drove out to the stadium at 11am to find out the checks had not arrived. They said to return to the stadium between 2-4pm.   We returned at 2pm and they instructed us to go to 430 Delaware Ave. after 12pm on Saturday. We arrived on Saturday a little after 12pm only to find out we had to come back at 3pm.   We returned at 3pm only to find tons of people waiting and no one getting checks. My son and his friends stood in line with the rest of the people waiting and waiting. There   was a lot of yelling and pushing. The boys found out they were giving out checks at the side door so, they went there. They were taking people's IDs and trying to match them with their check.  My son's one friend received his check at about 5:50pm only to see they misspelled his name. His other friend also finally received his check at the front door shortly after. At 6pm my son still   had not received his check. Some of the police officers were getting nasty. I tried to ask one a question and she raised her Billy club and threatened to arrest me. Another police officer was  threatening to arrest everyone for rioting. It was the most disorganized thing I have ever witnessed. I finally took my son out of line at about 6:15pm and we left with no check and no ID.   It was still in the building somewhere. At this point, we did not care anymore; we were scared, frozen and very upset with the whole ordeal.     Today, Sunday, January 4, 2009, was our fifth attempt of trying to get his check. We returned to Next Day Staffing to see if we could get his check at about 11:30 am. They were there and did have  his check with his name spelled correctly and his ID.(We were lucky because many of the people in the office with us did not receive a check) We were told to be sure we go to Bank of America   first thing in the morning. The lady told us the bank does charge five or six dollars to cash the check but it's better than putting it through your own bank. In other words the check may bounce.  The check is also void after seven days.     What all the workers went through to get their rightfully earned paychecks is a disgrace. The people who showed up to shovel were not there because they were rich or loved to shovel.  They were there because they needed the money. The Bills, Ralph Wilson, and the television stations that aired the request for shovelers owe these workers an apology.  I am sure none of them has ever had to go through all this to get their paycheck. The Buffalo Bills could have at least hired a reputable company.   The Bills and Ralph Wilson should also compensate these workers for all their frustration, time, and the effort they put into trying to be paid! I hope the Buffalo Bills and Ralph Wilson  never need the stadium shoveled again because after this experience I am sure there wont be many people willing to do it!  Update my son did finally get his check cashed at Bank of America. He did not pay the $6 fee to cash the check because he opened an account there. I still believe the Bills owe people for all the hassel they had to go through.
