Chas,       I am sorry, I cannot offer any info on web sites for vehicles for sale in SA.       If you read or speak German, check out this thread  http://www.expeditionportal.com/foru...read.php?t=757  and read the German overlanders&amp;#039; sites. There are lots of links there, and probably info on Europeans who are finishing their SA journey and would like to sell.       They may be gone already, but Peter and Stefi are interested in selling their 110 when they complete their SA trip. Check out the topic here:  http://www.expeditionportal.com/foru...ad.php?t=17480       IMO, it would make a lot more sense to fly down here and buy a diesel Hilux (Taco) than ship in a gas truck. Build or buy a slip in camper solution and ship it down or buy a slip in camper solution down here. Local market campers are set up for local AC voltage, propane connections, etc. Local market trucks can be serviced anywhere by anybody. Diesel Hiluxes are ubiquitous.       Keep things simple. You really DO NOT need all that aftermarket stuff to overland in SA. All most of it will do is decrease reliability and make repair much more challenging when you are in the boonies.       I don&amp;#039;t think there is anywhere you are likely to go down here that you can&amp;#039;t get to in a stock 4x4 crew cab diesel Hilux. If you want to go somewhere that truck can&amp;#039;t go, then, IMO, you are on a Sport 4x4 mission, not overlanding, and are unlikely to survive long enough to see much of the continent.       A realistic scenario is:   Research local markets here. The web is your friend.  Make a local contact for translation services if you are not fluent  Have your local contact do specific local market / product research.  At this point you should have a  realistic idea of pricing on used trucks / campers.  Fly in and rent a furnished place for a month. (Peru or Ecuador would cost you $350-450 USD per month, including cleaning service.)  Eyeball potential purchases.  Pay a local dealership to check out potential trucks. Things down here are just as professional as in the U.S. South America is not Africa or Central Asia.  Purchase a used Hilux or comparable Mitsubishi or Nissan. Toyotas are everywhere, other brands are weak or non-existant in some areas. You can get a Hilux fixed ANYWHERE.  Purchase a new or used slip in camper or install the one you shipped down.     If you want a bigger vehicle, you can buy a used Mercedes diesel chassis motor home (casa rodante) in Argentina for $10-30k USD. That will be a 2wd, dual rear wheel vehicle. You could put a bike on the bumper for further exploration or just go where the MH will take you (probably at least 80% of the places you are likely to go) and then rent a local Hilux or donkey to see the rest.       In either case, you will need insurance. AIG sells global full coverage for values up to $50k USD. Cost is about 10% of value per year, i.e. $5k USD for $50k USD coverage annually.       AIG also sells global liability. You can purchase a policy from an Argentinian company that provides liability coverage for all the MARCOSUR (SA trading block) countries.       Fly and buy makes sense from a lot of perspectives.       But, even if you ship something down, I encourage you to stop spending money on stuff for the truck right this instant. You don&amp;#039;t need all the stuff. All it does is make things less reliable, more troublesome to repair, and, most importantly, delays your departure.       It&amp;#039;s not about the truck. It&amp;#039;s about the experiences.       Be well,   Doug
