(Reuters) - European shares slid early on Monday, led lower by HSBC (HSBA.L), which tumbled after unveiling a big rights issue, and insurance stocks, which fell after U.S. peer AIG (AIG.N) was forced to seek another bailout.  At 0905 GMT, the FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares was down 3.2 percent at 696.79 points, trading at six-year lows. The benchmark is down 16 percent so far this year and just 2.3 percent away from a lifetime low hit in March 2003.  HSBC (HSBA.L) fell 10 percent after announcing a 5 for 12 rights issue at 254 pence per share -- a 48 percent discount to Friday's close -- to raise around 12.5 billion pounds ($17.82 billion). Annual profit more than halved and bad debts mounted in the United States.  Governments continued to come to the aid of financial institutions brought to their knees by a credit market crisis, with the U.S. government throwing a new $30 billion lifeline to American International Group as the embattled insurer prepared to report the biggest quarterly loss in corporate history.  AIG shares in Frankfurt (AIG.F) were up 7.5 percent but insurance stocks in Europe fell, led by ING (ING.AS), Aegon (AEGN.AS) and Legal &amp; General (LGEN.L), which slumped 9 percent.  Allianz (ALVG.DE) fell 5.3 percent and AXA (AXAF.PA) lost 4 percent. 'The S&amp;P broke down last Friday, and nervous European markets are likely to extend lows with pervasively bad economic data, worries over bank nationalisation and AIG having to be bailed out,' said Bernard McAlinden, strategist at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin.  UK banks followed HSBC lower, with  (RBS.L) down 14 percent and Standard Chartered (STAN.L) down 9.5 percent.  Across Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 .FTSE fell 3.3 percent, while Germany's DAX .GDAXI and France's CAC .FCHI lost 3 percent.   RIO FALLS ON AUSTRALIAN STATEMENT  Mining stocks were sharply lower as copper futures fell 1.8 percent.  Rio Tinto (RIO.L) slid 7 percent, tracking losses in its Australian-listed shares after the Australian government said it would take its time before deciding on China's planned $19.5 billion investment in Rio.  Rival Anglo American (AAL.L) lost 5.5 percent.  Among gainers, Dutch retailer Ahold (AHLN.AS) ticked up 1.3 percent after it reported a rise in fourth-quarter operating profit that was well ahead of the average of analyst forecasts.  Analysts said that investors were not going to be too fussy in seeking signs of an upturn. 'You need to see signs that policy moves are causing economies to stabilise ... markets would be very sensitive to any signs with interest rates at zero levels in the United States and Japan, and this week in the UK,' said NCB's McAlinden, adding that value in European market was 'strikingly good'. Later in the week, investor focus moves to interest rate decisions from the European Central Bank and the Bank of England.  Both the ECB and the BoE are expected to cut rates by 50 basis points, the ECB to 1.5 percent and the BoE to 0.5 percent.  Data continued to be bleak. Euro zone manufacturers had their worst month in at least 12 years in February as a recession showed no signs of easing, according to Markit's euro zone manufacturing purchasing managers' index.  (Reporting by Sitaraman Shankar; Editing by Rupert Winchester) 
