Wall Street opened mixed on Tuesday as investors took some upbeat information on housing starts. In Europe, stocks fell after a mostly stronger session in Asia.  The Commerce Department reported that housing starts rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 583,000 units, the biggest percentage gain since January 1990 and the first increase since April.  The consensus of economists surveyed by Reuters had been for a decline to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 450,000 units.  In addition, wholesale prices in the United States edged up a hair in February, but flatter energy prices and the continuing global economic downturn kept any price increases to a minimum, the government reported on Tuesday.  The Labor Department reported that its producer-price index rose by a less-than-expected 0.1 percent last month from January. The so-called core index, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, rose by 0.2 percent, a shade more than economists had expected. In early trading, the Dow Jones industrial was down about 40 points or 0.5 percent, while the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index was a few points lower. The Nasdaq was up slightly.  The DJ Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, fell 1.9 percent in afternoon trading, while the FTSE 100 index in London declined 1.3 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris fell 1.9 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt fell 1.7 percent.  Shell and Nokia led European indexes lower. Shell fell 2.7 percent after it said it had not been able to replace all of the oil and gas reserves it used up in 2008. Nokia fell 2.9 percent, after saying it would adapt to slumping demand for its cellphones by cutting 1,700 jobs, including 700 in its home country of Finland.  On Monday, the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index fell 0.4 percent, breaking a four-session winning streak.  Most stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region posted another day of healthy gains on Tuesday although most market watchers continued to caution that investor sentiment and economic fundamentals remained fragile. Many of Asia's leading markets, including Australia, China, Japan and South Korea rose 3 percent or more Tuesday, while Thailand and New Zealand gained nearly 1 percent. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index, which had risen during the previous five sessions, closed down 0.7 percent.  The Nikkei 225 stock average in Tokyo's 3.2 percent gain capped its best three-day gain in four months on optimism that government and central bank policies will lift the market and restore growth. Financial shares led the rally, after the British bank Barclays said Monday that it had had a strong start to 2009, comments that echoed cautiously upbeat assessments by Citigroup and Bank of America in the United States last week.  Still, most analysts warn that economic fundamentals around the world remain weak, and that economic data and company results for the first quarter of this year are likely to reveal an even deeper downturn than in the last three months of 2008, after the collapse of Lehman Brothers triggered a near-freezing of the credit markets.  The euro continued to gain ground against the dollar, ticking up to $1.272 from $1.2968 late Monday in New York. The British pound fell to $1.3997 from $1.4062, and the dollar rose to 98.87 yen from 98.18.  Lee Hardman, a currency analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in London, said so-called 'safe haven' demand for the dollar has diminished because the global authorities have helped to restore a degree of stability to financial markets. In a note to investors, Mr. Hardman pointed out that a report Monday from the Treasury showed foreign investors had become net sellers of $148.9 billion of American assets in January, after they bought a net $86.2 billion in December. 'The dollar runs the risk of weakening further if short-term outflows persist in combination with weak long-term capital inflows,' he said. 'We perceive that this risk will materialize more notably in the second half of the year as asset markets anticipate an economic recovery.' Crude oil futures for April fell 41 cents to $46.93 a barrel.  David Jolly reported from Paris, and Bettina Wassener from Hong Kong.
