TOKYO, March 6 (Reuters) - Tokyo's Nikkei average fell 2.3   percent on Friday on broad selling after General Motors (News/Aktienkurs)   warned of possible bankruptcy and as concerns intensified about   the fragile health of the global financial sector.   Japan's Financial Services Agency plans to extend curbs on   short-selling of stocks beyond the end of this month, two sources   familiar with the matter said, but the news had no impact on the   stock market, analysts said.   Market participants have said buying by what they believe to   be public pension funds has been supporting the benchmark when it   approaches the 26-year low of 6,994.90 hit in late October.   U.S. stocks slid on Thursday with the Dow and S&amp;P falling to   12-year lows, with shares of Citigroup, once the world's   largest bank by market value, trading below $1 for the first   time.   In Tokyo, Monex Group Inc lost 6 percent after a   newspaper reported Citigroup plans to sell its 26 percent stake   in the Japanese online broker as part of the struggling U.S.   bank's efforts to raise cash.   'Financial fears have resurfaced both in America and Europe,'   said Takahiko Murai, general manager of equities at Nozomi   Securities.   'Citi's stock price broke below $1, while U.K institutions   and others in Europe have lend money to peers in Eastern Europe   where the economies are in extremely poor conditions,' he said.   The benchmark Nikkei shed 172.60 points to 7,260.89. It had   lost more than 3 percent at one stage.   Buoyed by hopes for bigger economic stimulus plans in China,   it gained 2 percent the previous day, the first time it has risen   for two straight days since late January.   The broader Topix slipped 1.8 percent to 728.54.   'The Nikkei hasn't gone below its October lows because what   many believe to be public pension funds have bought to prop up   stock prices before the fiscal year-end, but that will definitely   wear off next month and Tokyo will move in tandem with the U.S.   and European markets,' said Murai.   Shipping firms such as Mitsui OSK, which had   recently gained on hopes for economic stimulus in China were   among the biggest losers while exporters also tumbled.   Mitsui OSK dropped 7.6 percent to 464 yen.   Among exporters, Honda lost 3.3 percent to 2,185 yen and   Toyota Motor Corp shed 2 percent to 2,925 yen. TDK Corp dropped 4.3 percent to 3,130 yen.   Monex tumbled 6.3 percent to 23,280 yen. aiko.hayashi.reuters.com@reuters.net; +81 3 6441 1802)) 
