Search Search Go  Bookmark &amp; Share  The FTSE 100 index stemmed a further fall into the red today but blue-chip stocks remained near six-year lows in early trading.  The benchmark index tumbled more than 5% yesterday on fresh fears over the health of the world's biggest financial firms.  Wall Street's Dow Jones Industrial Average shed more than 4% overnight and Asian markets lost ground, but the Footsie made tentative gains early on as some buyers were tempted back in. The FTSE-100 index opened at 8am at 3625.83 and by 8.15am it had risen by 24.91 to 3650.74.  CMC Markets dealer Matt Buckland said: Some may at least be working on the basis that the markets are now undoubtedly oversold which again should support a rally.  Sentiment looks set to be the dominant factor in the hours ahead and, put simply, if there's a genuine belief that further value needs to be taken out of the market then we'll be in for another ugly session.  Banking stocks did much of the damage on Monday  led by a 19% fall for HSBC after its record 12.5bn rights issue  but a modest recovery for the sector helped stabilise the top flight today.  Lloyds Banking Group gained more than 5% on hopes that a deal to place its toxic debts in a taxpayer-backed insurance scheme will be soon be struck, while index heavyweight HSBC clawed back around 4% of Monday's losses.  Asian-facing bank Standard Chartered also added 8% amid optimism over the bank's annual results. The firm surpassed most rivals with pre-tax profits of $4.8bn (3.4bn) for 2008  19% ahead of the previous year.  The gains pushed the wider market ahead despite falls for Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland, down 5% and 2% respectively. Elsewhere in the top flight, telecoms giant BT was a strong gainer after regulator Ofcom said it would not interfere in wholesale pricing for super-fast broadband products.  Last night, despair gripped world markets as shares plummeted on both sides of the Atlantic, dragging the Dow Jones industrial average to its first drop below 7,000 in more than 11 years and the FTSE 100 Index to a six-year low.  The Dublin market fared no better on another meltdown Monday, with the ISEQ slumping to its lowest close since June 1995, following huge losses at insurance giant AIG, and the call by HSBC for more funding from its investors.  HSBCs announcement triggered a wave of selling as confidence took a fresh battering  wiping 49.7bn off blue-chip stocks.  On Wall Street, the US Dow Jones index fell below 7,000 points for the first time since October 1997.  Many investors now fear the market could take a long time to recover to its record high of over 14,000 in October 2007.  Bad as things are, they can still get worse, and get a lot worse, said Bill Strazzullo, chief market strategist for Bell Curve Trading. The game-changer would be whether the the US housing market could stabilise.  
