NEW YORK - Oil prices slumped Thursday as China failed to impress investors with plans to revive its economy while a variety of government reports suggested energy use could fall further still.  Light, sweet crude for April delivery fell 88 cents to US$44.50 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. In London, Brent prices fell 72 cents to $45.40 on the ICE Futures exchange.  Market watchers had hoped China would aggressively try to kick start its economy, but in a speech Thursday Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao's failed to disclose new spending beyond the $586-billion package announced in November. The premier did say he expected his country to achieve a growth rate of 8 per cent this year.  Initial optimism over China, and U.S. government reports that crude inventories were lower than expected, has 'run out of steam,' Newedge analyst Antoine Halff said.  Oil prices shot up Wednesday when the government reported inventories tightened unexpectedly. 'People are taking a second look and realizing the fundamentals are still weak. Demand is contracting,' Halff said. Meanwhile, another round of disappointing economic news meant investors quickly forgot about a nine per cent price jump for crude Wednesday.  General Motors Crop., which received $13.4 billion in federal loans, said its auditors have raised 'substantial doubt' about the auto maker's ability to continue operations. GM said it may have to seek bankruptcy protection if it can't execute a huge restructuring plan.  The federal government said worker productivity was worse-than-expected in the fourth quarter while wage pressures shot up at the fastest clip in two years. Productivity, the amount of output per hour of work, fell at an annual rate of 0.4 per cent. At the same time, unit labour costs were surging by 5.7 per cent.  The Labour Department also said new jobless claims and the total number of people receiving unemployment benefits both dropped unexpectedly last week. But the four-week average of new claims, which smooths out fluctuations, increased 2,000 to 641,750, the highest since October 1982.  In Europe, statistics agency Eurostat on Thursday confirmed an earlier estimate which showed the European Union economy contracted by an annual 1.5 per cent in the fourth quarter. The 27-nation bloc grew 0.9 per cent in all of 2008.  As global demand stalls, OPEC will likely announce additional production cuts of as much as one million barrels a day at the group's next meeting on March 15, said David Moore, a commodity strategist with Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney.  OPEC has already cut more than four million barrels a day from production by most estimates.  Leaders of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries have said they would like oil prices above $70 a barrel. 'OPEC has cut production quite a lot,' Moore said. 'They have succeeded to an extent in arresting the decline in prices.' Oil will likely trade near the low $40s for the next few months as weak global demand offsets dwindling supplies, Moore said.  Gas prices were unchanged for the third straight day at a national average of $1.933 a gallon, according to auto club AAA, Wright Express and Oil Price Information Service. Pump prices are up 4.3 cents from last month, but $1.245 cheaper than they were last year.  In other Nymex trading, gasoline for April delivery fell 5.2 cents to $1.3296 a gallon, while heating oil fell 1.53 cents to $1.1992 a gallon. Natural gas for April delivery fell 5.8 cents to $4.282 per 1,000 cubic feet.
