Global crude futures bounced back from the previous day's sharp losses in European morning trading Tuesday, supported by the retreat of the US dollar. By 1142 GMT, ICE Brent futures for April delivery were trading 86 cents firmer at $43.07/barrel, while NYMEX light sweet crude had added 55 cents to $40.70/b. The ICE US Dollar Index, which overnight had powered through the 89.0 point mark, fell to an intra-day low of 88.34 before recovering to 88.9 points, down 0.04 points on the day. 'Oil will move in tandem with the dollar,' a London-based broker said. But lower stock market movements in Asia and Europe capped upward sentiment, after the Dow Jones Industrial Average had closed below 6,800 points the previous evening in the wake of insurance giant AIG posting a $61.7 billion loss and banking major HSBC saying it would seek to raise capital through a rights issue. Both key crude markers lost significant support levels during Monday's selloff, which was sparked by the bull run of the US dollar and tumbling equities indices, dragging down the entire commodities complex, including gold. The WTI front-month crashed $4.92/b on the day to an intra-day low of $39.84/b, while the equivalent Brent contract plummeted $4.38/b to $41.97/b, erasing most of last week's gains. 'The Dow is making new lows and is still driving the sentiment, even though historical comparisons are somewhat irrelevant now as too many of the Dow constituents are technically bankrupt,' consultant Olivier Jakob at Petromatrix said. 'In this environment, the [weekly US oil] statistics will be crucial for the oil markets to decide if they can have a life of their own. Another weekly set of global stock draws will be needed for any chance of decoupling from the equity dynamics.' Analyst Edward Meir at MF Global said sentiment had also been impacted by indications from Iran that OPEC might adopt a wait-and-see stance on output targets at its next meeting. 'We were rather surprised by this comment, as it contradicted what the Iranians were saying as recently as a week ago,' he said. The product segment mirrored the partial recovery of crude prices. ICE gasoil futures added $2.25 to $368.25/mt, while the NYMEX heating oil contract traded 2.63 cents higher at $1.18/gal. NYMEX RBOB futures were 0.28 cents firmer at $1.29/gal. For more news, request a complimentary trial to Platts Forward Curve Oil at http://getforwardcurveoil.platts.com  
