By Aiko Hayashi TOKYO, March 11 (Reuters) - Japan's Nikkei average jumped 4 percent on Wednesday, bouncing back from a 26-year closing low as financial shares climbed after Citigroup's chief executive said the U.S. bank was making profits. Toshiba Corp shot up more than 8 percent after a newspaper reported it may see an operating profit of about 100 billion yen ($1 billion) in the next business year, compared with the consensus estimate for a 103 billion yen loss. 'Investors have been overly risk-averse and tried to shrink their positions both in Japan and the United States, but this attitude may ease a bit after bank shares which have been weak for so long pushed up Wall Street,' said Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Investment Management. U.S. stocks posted their best day in four months on Tuesday after Citigroup Chief Executive Vikram Pandit said the company was profitable in the first two months of 2009 and voiced confidence about its capital strength, easing concerns about the bank's survival prospects. 'But the real economy hasn't improved and sentiment remains the same. We'll just need to see if the rally will end today or continue tomorrow and beyond,' Akino said. In moderate trade, the benchmark Nikkei gained 283.18 points to 7,338.16, after posting on Tuesday its lowest close since October 1982. The broader Topix climbed 3.1 percent to 725.58. It hit a fresh 25-year closing low on Tuesday. 'We may be bracing for a rebound in the short-term as downward revisions of earnings by companies also seem to have calmed down recently,' said Yukio Takahashi, a market analyst at Shinko Securities. 'At least, fears about how far low the market could fall have receded.' The market mostly shrugged off data showing Japan's core private-sector machinery orders fell 3.2 percent in January from the previous month, slightly better than a median market forecast for a 4.5 percent fall. BANKS JUMP Among banks, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Japan's top lender, shot up 6.8 percent to 422 yen. Mizuho Financial Group surged 7.8 percent to 180 yen and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group gained 6.7 percent to 2,870 yen. Toshiba jumped 8.1 percent to 239 yen. The Nikkei business daily said the upbeat outlook is due to cost-cutting and growth in its infrastructure business, but Toshiba spokesman Keisuke Ohmori said nothing is decided for the next business year. Other blue-chip exporters gained ground, with Canon Inc advancing 7 percent to 2,285 yen and Honda Motor Co climbing 4.3 percent to 2,170 yen. Seiko Epson gained 8 percent to 1,088 yen after the Nikkei business daily said the company planned to consolidate three liquid crystal display plants into one by September and stop production at a semiconductor factory as early as 2011. Shares of Maruha Nichiro Holdings, a leading seafood processor, soared 13.9 percent to 123 yen a day after the Nikkei publisher said the stock was being added to the benchmark Nikkei share average. Some 923 million shares changed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first section, compared with last week's morning average of 946 million. Advancing stocks outpaced declining ones by nearly 6 to 1. (Reporting by Aiko Hayashi; Editing by Edwina Gibbs) ((aiko.hayashi@thomsonreuters.com; Reuters Messaging: aiko.hayashi.reuters.com@reuters.net; +81 3 6441 1802)) Keywords: MARKETS JAPAN STOCKS Reuters Terminal users can see other related news and rates by double-clicking on: All Nikkei indices All shares listed on Nikkei-225 N225 index TOPIX index Nikkei Japan 1000 TOPIX sector data Nikkei 300 index TOPIX futures data Osaka N225 data Chicago N225 data Top 30 by volume Top 30 by value Total volume Total value 1st section sector RICs All TSE weighted avg Top 30 gainers by pct Top 30 losers by pct Top 30 net gainers Top 30 net losers Active Japanese stocks Japan economic indicators ASIA-PACIFIC STOCK MARKETS: Pan-Asia Japan S.Korea S.E. Asia Hong Kong Taiwan Australia/NZ India China OTHER MARKETS: Wall Street Gold Currency Eurostocks Oil JP bonds ADR Report LME metals US bonds Stocks News US Stocks News Europe DIARIES &amp; DATA: IPO diary &amp; data Asia earnings diary U.S. earnings diary European diary Japan diary Wall Street Week Ahead Eurostocks Week Ahead TOP NEWS: For top Asian company news: Top News Japan U.S. company news Europe company news Forex news Global Economy news All Equity news Tech, Media, Telecoms Banking news Politics/General news Asia Macro data A multimedia version of Reuters Top News is available at: http://topnews.session.rservices.com LIVE PRICES &amp; DATA: World stocks Currencies Dow Jones/NASDAQ Debt FTSE 100 LME price overview Yen/dollar (Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for: * 3000 Xtra : visit http://topnews.session.rservices.com * BridgeStation: view story .134 * Reuters Plus: from your WebDSS screen For more information on Top News, visit http://topnews.reuters.com) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.. 
