(Adds information, quotes, updates/adds market levels)  Asian shares were mostly a bit higher Tuesday and holding up fairly well given another fall on Wall Street, with financial stocks getting some respite from recently heavy selling as their U.S. counterparts bounced. HSBC went from hindrance to help in Hong Kong, with the Hang Seng Index rising 2.2% as HSBC recovered 12.9% from Monday's 24.1% drop. Trade though was cautious and choppy, with a light data and event slate for the week. 'There's a complete lack of interest. People are sort of caught in the headlights at the moment, not knowing which way to jump,' said ABN AMRO head of Sydney sales trading Justin Gallagher. Japan's Nikkei 225 was down 0.7% (though still above the key 7000 level) but Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 nudged up 0.3% after briefly touching its lowest level in five-and-a-half years, with South Korea's Kospi Composite up 0.7% and Taiwan's main index adding 0.5%. Some doubted markets would gain much. 'With economies around the world still producing grim data on an almost daily basis and stock markets having to continually revise expectations downwards, this particular bear market appears to be still in full flow,' said David Jones, chief market strategist at IG Index. But with markets already at multi-month, or even multi-year lows, selling was also unlikely to be strong, and financial shares were providing a buffer. 'It is day 19 in the 'selling stampede' and such stampedes rarely go more than 25 sessions before exhausting themselves on the downside,' said Raymond James &amp; Associates analyst Jeffrey D. Saut. 'We continue to think the nadir is near. The real question will be, 'is it a bear market rally, or something more?'' Among financial stocks, Commonwealth Bank of Australia was up 3.1% with QBE adding 2.3%. National Australia Bank ticked up 0.4% after a big fall Monday, and before its trading update Thursday, though ABN Amro cut its rating on the stock to sell. In Japan, MUFG was up 3.1% and Sumitomo Mitsui FG up 2.5%, while Singapore's DBS added 1.2% and Korea's KB Financial gained 5.0%. Real estate shares were also rising in Tokyo after Monday's falls, with Mitsui Fudosan up 4.4%, while insurers gained with Tokio Marine up 1.8%. Telstra was a leading decliner in Sydney, down 3.4% amid concerns it may be permanently excluded from the national broadband tendering process, though Chief Executive Sol Trujillo said the company remained open to talks with the Australian government over the tender. Miners and consumer-linked shares were also under pressure, with BHP Billiton down 0.7% and Woolworths lower by 1.8%. The Korean won's recent weakness continued to help export-related stocks, with Hyundai Heavy up 1.4% and Korean Air adding 4.4%. Hong Kong was being led by HSBC's partial bounce, with a person familiar with the matter telling Dow Jones Newswires that the bank had no plan to halt its rights issue, or change the terms of the issue. Moody's Investors Service though took the first step toward a possible cut of its long-term senior debt ratings on HSBC, revising its outlook to negative from stable. The Shanghai Composite Index was flat and off its lows as the February consumer price index data came in largely as-expected, providing some comfort. Singapore's Straits Times index was up 0.8%, though chip foundry Chartered Semiconductor dropped 39% to S$0.125, an all-time low, after confirming plans to raise $300 million through a 27-for-10 rights offering to existing shareholders. Malaysia's benchmark index fell 0.9% with investors cautious approach before details of the government's second stimulus package later Tuesday, while New Zealand shares were down 0.5%, Philippine shares down 0.5% with Indonesian shares 0.2% higher. In the currency market the euro showed some strength, at $1.2657 from $1.2602 late in New York, and at Y125.16, from Y124.53. The U.S. dollar was around Y98.87, from Y98.82. Asian currencies were mostly higher against the greenback as players took profit on the greenback's recent gains while exporters, especially tech companies, were suspected of selling the dollar. Japanese government bond futures found some sellers with the March contract down 0.26 at 138.48 points and the 10-year cash yield up half a basis point at 1.3%. 'I think we basically lack fresh news and activity is limited ahead of the fiscal year end this month' in Japan, said Mitsubishi UFJ Securities strategist Naomi Hasegawa. Spot gold fell $4.30 from New York levels to $917.20 a troy ounce. 'Stock markets are rising and falling at the drop of a hat. Gold is getting pushed around by the dollar, and ETFs are reflecting poorer investor interest in the market,' said Investec head of trading Darren Heathcote. LME three-month copper added $24 from London levels, to $3,624 a metric ton. April Nymex crude oil futures were 11 cents higher at $47.18 a barrel on Globex, after rising $1.55 or 3.4% in New York. A militant attack on a Nigerian oil pipeline sharpened supply concerns while the market weighed the prospect of another OPEC production cut. 
