By Jungyoun Park   SEOUL, March 11 (Reuters) - Seoul shares rose on Wednesday,   with banks advancing after Citigroup said it was profitable for   the first two months of 2009, but Hynix Semiconductor   underperformed after an unfavourable outcome to a patent case   with Rambus.   The Korea Composite Stock Price Index was up 2.68   percent at 1,121.34 points by 0156 GMT, after hitting 1,127.41   points, the highest intraday level since mid-February.   'Comments by Citigroup eased worries about U.S. banks'   fundamentals, and combined with a stronger won currency, are   boosting the appetite for stocks. Upward momentum will probably   continue for sometime,' said Lee Kyung-su, a market analyst at Taurus Investment &amp; Securities. Citigroup Chief Executive Vikram Pandit said the U.S. bank   was profitable in the first two months of 2009 and it was   confident about its capital strength.   The won was trading at 1,478.30/79.90 per dollar as of   0208 GMT, compared with Tuesday's domestic close of   1,511.5.   'The index could test the 1,200-point level in the current   upward momentum, but some volatility could be ahead, with both   the options and futures expiries and the central bank's interest   rate decision falling on Thursday,' Lee added.   Financials rose after their U.S. peers rallied overnight,   boosted by Citigroup comments, easing bank health worries and sending the S&amp;P financial index up 15.58 percent.   The won's strength, up more than 2 percent near a three-week   high against the U.S. dollar on Wednesday, also helped, analysts   said.   '...the appreciation of the won suggests reduced concerns   about liquidity risks at Korean banks, easing counter-party and   credit risks from forex operations,' said JPMorgan in its report   on Wednesday.   KB Financial Group advanced 4.5 percent and Hana   Financial Group climbed 8.66 percent.   Meanwhile, shares in Hynix Semiconductor advanced, albeit   underperforming the benchmark, after the final ruling by a   California court in favour of Rambus, ordering Hynix to   pay $396 million in a patent case.   Hynix said in a regulatory filing on Wednesday that it would   appeal the court's ruling.   'Although the penalty came out bigger-than-expected, Hynix   does not have to pay all of it immediately. They have appealed   the ruling already. It is going to take a long time before the   case settles for good,' said Jack Park, an analyst at SK   Securities.   The world's No.2 memory chip maker was up 1.97 percent.   Elsewhere, shares in Korea Electric Power Corp   (KPECO), South Korea's power monopoly, climbed 6.61 percent on   the won's strength.   'Nearly 99 percent of raw materials needed for generating   South Korea's electricity are imported, and KEPCO is extremely   sensitive to the foreign exchange rate. Its earnings correlate   directly with it,' said Kim Seung-woo, an analyst at Samsung   Securities.   (Editing by Jacqueline Wong)   Keywords: MARKETS KOREA STOCKS/   (jungyoun.park@thomsonreuters.com; +82 2 3704 5643; Reuters Messaging: jungyoun.park.reuters.com@reuters.net) 
