THE Australian share market is expected to open higher today following Wall Street's positive finish and ahead of a raft of employment and housing finance data this week.  A late-day rally saw Wall Street close mixed on Friday with the Dow Jones Industrial Average gaining 35.84 points, or 0.54 per cent, to close at 6630.28 despite a sharp rise in job losses during February.   CommSec chief equities economist Craig James said Wall Street's finish was very encouraging against a backdrop of rising job losses that pushed the US unemployment rate to 8.1 per cent from 7.6 per cent in January. 'The Dow finished higher, oil was up, gold was up, base metal prices remain buoyed by expectations of a Chinese economic recovery -- that augurs well for our market,' he said. Trade would be thinned because of the Labour Day public holiday in Victoria, he added.   On Friday the Australian share market closed at its weakest level in almost six years, with the benchmark S&amp;P/ASX200 index down 43 points, or 1.35 per cent, at 3145.5, while the broader All Ordinaries index shed 37.1 points, or 1.18 per cent, to 3111.7. It was the S&amp;P/ASX 200's weakest close since mid-July 2003.   On the Sydney Futures Exchange, the March share price index futures contract was 23 points lower at 3146 on a volume of 24,008 contracts.   Mr James said the Australian economy remained in very good shape with flat rather than negative growth, and the negative 0.5 per cent GDP figure for the December quarter was caused by an error term used as part of the GDP calculation. 'It was that error term that contributed all the downturn in the economy, so the best representation of our economy is flat rather than anything else. It's not falling, but it's not rising either,' he said. 'Negative 0.5 per cent is a drop in the ocean compared to what's happening elsewhere in the world.' The market would also be waiting for the results of several surveys on employment and housing finance data this week, he said.   On Thursday, National Australia Bank's new chief executive, Cameron Clyne, will announce a senior management restructure and company update. 
