 Posted By Malcolm Morrison, the Canadian Press Posted 2 hours ago Stock markets enjoyed another positive session Friday, stretching a remarkable buying spree in Toronto and New York to four days, largely fuelled by good news from the financial sector.   Toronto's S&amp;P/TSX composite index gained 21.12 points on the day to 8,303.39, advancing 9.5 per cent for the week. The TSX Venture Exchange rose 5.55 points to 848.97.   The Canadian dollar climbed 0.41 cent to 78.59 cents US despite the news that the unemployment rate jumped half a point to 7.7 per cent with the loss of 82,600 jobs in February. Statistics Canada also reported the country's trade deficit deepened to almost $1 billion in January.   Observers didn't think the data had much effect on stock trading. 'I would say at this stage bad employment news unfortunately is no big surprise,' said Kate Warne, Canadian market specialist at Edward Jones in St. Louis. 'And I would say if people are surprised, they need to get prepared, because employment tends to be a lagging indicator.' New York's Dow Jones industrial average gained 53.92 points to 7,223.98, also up by more than nine per cent on the week.   The Nasdaq composite index edged up 5.4 points at 1,431.5 while the S&amp;P 500 index gained 5.81 to 756.55.   The rally was ignited Tuesday when Citigroup Inc. said it had an operating profit in the first two months of the year. Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. chimed in during the week with word that their bank operations have also been profitable.   Also feeding optimism was news that a U.S. accounting board may recommend an easing of reporting rules on tough-to-sell assets. Banks say the so-called mark-to-market provision has unjustifiably ravaged their bottom lines.   Investors were further encouraged as Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the government is ready to expand its already announced stimulus measures, while Japan's prime minister is calling for a new stimulus package. Advertisement
