Canada factory sales tumble on auto market meltdown  OTTAWA (Reuters) - A record drop in sales for the auto industry knocked down Canadian factory shipments in January by 5.4 percent from the previous month, Statistics Canada said on Tuesday. The result was slightly better than the 5.8 percent decline forecast by analysts in a Reuters poll and followed an 8.2 percent drop in December.  Canada labor productivity falls  OTTAWA (Reuters) - The labor productivity of Canadian businesses slid a sharper-than-expected 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008, leading to the first annual decline in productivity since 1996, Statistics Canada said on Tuesday. The gross domestic product of the business sector shrank 1.3 percent in the quarter while the number of hours worked dipped just 0.8 percent, Statscan said.  GM bondholders: Our plan best chance for automaker  DETROIT (Reuters) - Advisers to bondholders of General Motors Corp said on Monday they have presented a framework plan to U.S. President Barack Obama's autos task force and the ailing No. 1 U.S. automaker that provides the company's best chance for an out-of-court restructuring. In a statement, advisers to the ad hoc committee of GM bondholders said the framework plan for a debt-to-equity exchange was 'consistent with the government's restructuring requirements under the terms' of emergency government loans provided to the automaker.  Rio names new chairman as Chinalco row escalates  CANBERRA/MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Rio Tinto named a new chairman to help get a planned $19.5 billion tie-up with China's Chinalco approved, as Australian politicians opposed to the deal raised their level of protest on Tuesday. Designed to help Rio cut its $39 billion debt burden, the deal has aroused political concerns in Australia about key assets falling into Chinese hands and sparked complaints from investors who say one shareholder is being favored over others.  Canwest may sell out of Australia's Ten: report  SYDNEY (Reuters) - Debt-laden Canadian media group CanWest is looking to raise about A$390 million ($258 million) by selling its 56.6 percent stake in Australian broadcaster Ten Network , a newspaper said on Tuesday. Without citing any sources, the Australian Financial Review said CanWest had been sounding out institutional investors including Commonwealth Bank , which owns 6.5 percent of Ten, and 452 Capital which has 5.7 percent.  Agrium puts CF Industries takeover bid in motion  TORONTO (Reuters) - Canadian fertilizer maker Agrium Inc put its hostile takeover bid for U.S. rival CF Industries in motion on Monday, formally offering to acquire all of CF's outstanding shares. CF, which itself is currently locked in a hostile takeover bid for competitor Terra Industries , rejected Agrium's $3.6 billion bid last week as inadequate. At that time, CF also revised its own offer for Terra.  Ottawa seeks legal advice on Arctic pipeline delays  CALGARY, Alberta (Reuters) - Canada's environment minister has sought legal advice on how to deal with any further regulatory delays for a C$16.2 billion ($12.8 billion) natural gas pipeline from the Arctic, he said on Monday. Environment minister Jim Prentice said he, Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Northwest Territories Premier Floyd Roland all have expressed frustration over regulatory setbacks plaguing the Mackenzie Valley Pipeline.  Canada industry, wealth data show sharp downturn  OTTAWA (Reuters) - Canadian industries ran at a slower rate than predicted and household wealth suffered its biggest drop on record in the last quarter of 2008, according to latest in a string of gloomy data showing the depth of the economy's downturn. The capacity utilization rate -- the ratio of an industry's actual output to its potential output -- hit a record low of 74.7 percent in the last quarter, pulled down by weak domestic and foreign demand for manufactured goods, Statistics Canada said on Monday.  Canadian Solar loss wider than expected  (Reuters) - China's Canadian Solar Inc posted a wider-than-expected quarterly loss, hurt by rapid declines in prices for its products and as funding for solar projects dries up amid the global credit crisis. A pullback in solar subsidies in Germany and Spain, a dearth of credit for renewable energy projects and a strengthening U.S. dollar against the euro has caused prices on solar products to fall faster than expected.  Oil rises towards $48, eyes inventory data  LONDON (Reuters) - Oil firmed toward $48 a barrel on Tuesday, although staying within the trading range it has held so far this month, ahead of United States inventory data expected to show a build in crude oil stocks. Data from industry group the American Petroleum Institute (API) will be closely watched later on Tuesday as a preliminary Reuters poll showed analysts forecast a 500,000 barrel increase in domestic crude stocks last week.   Reuters Limited. All Rights Reserved.  Reproduction or redistribution of Reuters content, including framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
