FRANKFURT, March 11 (Reuters) - European shares rose for the second straight day on Wednesday as financials, led by Credit Suisse, added to the previous day's steep gains while defensives such as British American Tobacco sold off.   The FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares closed 0.3 percent higher at 692.65 points after a volatile session that saw it gain as much as 1.9 percent and fall as much as 1.4 percent.  The benchmark rallied more than 5 percent on Tuesday for its biggest one-day percentage gain in three months.  In financials, Dexia jumped over 30 percent, Credit Suisse rose 9.1 percent, Deutsche Bank advanced 8.4 percent and AXA put on 7.3 percent as the sector built on Tuesday's rally triggered by Citigroup Chief Executive Vikram Pandit saying the U.S. bank was profitable in January and February.  But HSBC lost 6.3 percent on the last day investors were entitled to the right to participate in the bank's $18 billion deeply discounted share sale.  Some fund managers sold the shares to manage the stock's portfolio weighting or to raise money for the rights issue.  The DJ Stoxx bank index added 1.3 percent but has nevertheless lost more than 30 percent this year, clearly underperforming the broader market, which is down some 17 percent after a 45 percent plunge in 2008.  The DJ Stoxx auto index rose 2.9 percent, led by French carmakers Renault, up 8.5 percent, and Peugeot , up 6.8 percent, with traders citing market talk of a merger between the groups.  Renault denied the rumour while a spokesman for PSA Peugeot Citroen declined to comment and an analyst said a deal between the two was unlikely.  Philips Electronics climbed 5.9 percent after the company sold its stake in Korea's LG Display for 630 million euros.  MORE VOLATILITY  Strategists saw volatility remaining the name of the game. 'Markets are characterised by considerable uncertainties. The risk of an investment in equities is above average,' VP Bank of Liechtenstein said in a note. 'We expect indexes to remain volatile and trade sideways.' Markus Reinwand, equity strategist at German bank Helaba, said volatility tended to be particularly high close to trend turning points. 'A number of indicators suggest that the downward move has been exaggerated,' Reinwand said. Major indexes have fallen more than in previous post-World War Two bear markets and investor pessimism and money parked in cash deposits have risen to record highs, he said. 'In the past, such constellations were usually a precursor of a distinct stock market recovery,' Reinwand added. Reuters polls of around 250 economists from Toronto to Tokyo showed the first quarter of 2009 shaping up to be nearly as bad for most leading economies as an already ugly end to 2008.  By 2010, unemployment is expected to have soared to a 10-year high in the euro zone, while 13 million people will be jobless in the United States and 10 percent of the UK workforce will be looking for work.  Data published on Wednesday showed Britain's goods trade gap with the rest of the world widened more than expected in January and a much bigger than expected drop in manufacturing orders in Germany, Europe's largest economy.  FALLING EARNINGS 'Any meaningful recovery in the euro area still seems to be far away,' Morgan Stanley said in a note on the German data. 'Equities will suffer in the second quarter on the release of (companies') first-quarter losses,' Frankfurt brokerage Steubing said, also commenting on the plunge in German orders. 'The first quarter will be a disaster for corporate earnings,' Steubing said. ING in a strategy note said it expects European earnings to fall by 48 percent in 2009 and by a further 9 percent in 2010. 'In seeking to determine how much further equities can and should fall, we think gauging the earnings cycle remains the investor's best ally,' ING said. 'The traditional rule of thumb suggests that equity markets will hit a low two to three quarters in advance of the earnings trough. If this rule still holds, the most likely time for the start of sustainable rally will be sometime in the third quarter of 2009,' ING said. Wednesday's European stock market losers were mainly to be found among traditional safe-haven defensives such as British American Tobacco, down 6 percent, telecoms group Vodafone , down 3.8 percent, and utility GDF Suez, down 2.5 percent. 
