One day after snapping the two-day winning streak that saw it add more than 25 points or 2 percent, the South Korean stock market turned right back to the upside on Friday. The KOSPI is closing on resistance at 1,150 points, and analysts are calling it likely that the market could successfully challenge that level on Monday.  The global forecast for the Asian markets is fairly positive - especially ahead of the inauguration of Barack Obama as the 44th president of the United States on Tuesday. Some slightly better-than-expected economic data out of the United States added to the positive sentiment, pushing the European and U.S. markets broadly to the upside - and the Asian bourses are predicted to follow that lead.  The KOSPI finished sharply higher on Friday, extending a positive opening with continued gains through the afternoon session. Heavy buying in the technology sector lifted the market, while the financials also saw significant gains.  For the day, the index jumped 23.86 points or 2.15 percent to close at 1,135.20 after trading between 1,109.69 and 1,135.79. Volume was 331.2 million shares worth 4.03 trillion won. There were 579 gainers and 235 decliners.  Among the gainers, Hynix Semiconductor rose 5.8 percent, while LG Display gained 5.7 percent, Samsung Electronics added 2.1 percent and Hanwha jumped 13.3 percent.  Wall Street provides a modestly optimistic lead as stocks ultimately closed higher on Friday after showing considerable volatility over the course of the trading session - as investors responded to some significant news on both the economic and corporate fronts. Stocks moved sharply higher in early trading, but they were unable to sustain the initial upward move and turned lower over the course of the morning. Nonetheless, the major averages moved back to the upside in afternoon trading, ending the day firmly in positive territory.   In corporate news, Intel (INTC) said that its fourth quarter profit dropped 90 percent from last year, hurt by sluggish end market demand and a billion-dollar writedown on its investments in Clearwire Corp. (CLWR). However, the company's earnings came in line with estimates. Additionally, financial services giant Citigroup (C) revealed plans to reorganize into two businesses, Citicorp and Citi Holdings, to optimize the company's global businesses for future profitable growth and opportunities.  Meanwhile, Bank of America (BAC) said that the government has agreed to invest an additional $20 billion in the company to help it absorb losses at Merrill Lynch, which Bank of America acquired on January 1. Bank of America said that the government has also agreed to provide protection against further losses on $118 billion in selected capital markets exposure, primarily from the former Merrill Lynch portfolio.  1 2 Next Page 
