NEW YORK -- The dollar slid against most major currencies Friday as Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. announced plans to improve their operations after posting fourth-quarter losses, while several U.S. companies announced they would cut thousands of jobs.  The 16-nation euro bought $1.3300 in late New York trading, up from $1.3163 late Thursday. The British pound rose to $1.4746 from $1.4659.  Bank of America reported a $2.39 billion loss hours after it convinced the federal government to give it an additional $20 billion worth of fresh capital. Meanwhile, Citigroup suffered a loss of $8.29 billion, and said it is splitting into two pieces. Citicorp will focus on traditional banking around the world, while Citi Holdings will hold the company's riskier assets and tougher-to-manage ventures.  The government also said Friday afternoon it will provide $1.5 billion in loans to the financing arm of Chrysler LLC on top of the package of loans the automaker has already received to help buy it time to reorganize.  'This variety of support measures from the government has really improved the risk appetite environment,' said Bob Sinche, head of global foreign exchange strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New York. 'The inauguration this week and talk of fiscal stimulus should help to sustain a bit of optimism in trading and lead to further gains for currencies like the euro and the Australian dollar versus the U.S. dollar.'  Meanwhile, Hertz Global Holdings Inc., General Electric Co., WellPoint Inc. and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. said they would be eliminating jobs to cope with the recession. Bankrupt Circuit City Stores Inc., unable to work out a sale of the company, said it will go out of business - closing its U.S. stores and cutting 30,000 jobs.  Also Friday, the Labor Department said the consumer price index fell 0.7 percent in December as energy prices slid. Economists polled by Thomson Reuters forecast a 0.9 percent drop. For the full year, prices rose just 0.1 percent - the smallest gain since prices actually fell in 1954.  In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said industrial production from the nation's factories, mines and utilities fell a larger-than-expected 2 percent in December. Economists expected a 1 percent.  In other late New York trading, the dollar fell to 1.1160 Swiss francs from 1.1220 francs it bought late Thursday, and slipped to 1.2486 Canadian dollars from 1.2508 Canadian dollars. The dollar rose to 90.58 Japanese yen from 89.68 yen Thursday.  
