NEW YORK  Investors acted Wednesday as if they had overdone it a day earlier.  Wall Street snapped back from a steep sell-off with a rebound in the same financial stocks that were pummeled Tuesday. Upbeat comments from banks, stronger-than-expected results from IBM and hopes that Washington will offer more help to the economy powered a rally that recovered most of the previous session's losses.  The Dow Jones industrials surged nearly 280 points and all the major indexes rose more than 3.5 percent. Some bounce would have been expected after the Dow tumbled 332 points Tuesday, but forecasts from PNC Financial and Bank of New York Mellon eased concerns that the troubles at financial giants like Citigroup were hitting all banks.  Many banks reversed double-digit drops from Tuesday with double-digit gains. PNC, which acquired National City on Dec. 31, jumped 37 percent after saying it would turn in a profit for 2008. And Bank of New York Mellon rose 23 percent after reporting that it managed to eke out a profit for the fourth quarter.  Citigroup surged 31 percent after falling 20 percent Tuesday. Bank of America jumped 31 percent a day after falling 29 percent. Chief Executive Ken Lewis' report Wednesday that he bought 200,000 shares of common stock during the rout a day earlier encouraged investors.  And JPMorgan Chase rose 25 percent. Its CEO, Jamie Dimon, said he bought 500,000 shares of his bank's stock on Friday.  IBM  surprised investors late Tuesday with a forecast for the year that was well above what analysts expected. It reported a 12 percent rise in fourth-quarter profit that easily beat analysts' estimates. And Swedish wireless equipment maker LM Ericsson also reported earnings that topped predictions.  It's too early to say whether Tuesday's plunge and Wednesday's surge were overdone, said John Lynch, chief market analyst at Evergreen Investments in Charlotte, N.C. He contends the volatility will continue until investors gain more confidence. He predicts stocks will test the weakest levels of late November, when the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index closed at an 11-year low.  'This is part of the painful bottoming process,' he said.  But Kevin Gaughan, equity strategist at Strong Financial in Milwaukee, said investors are slowly starting to look more at stocks on their merits rather than just engaging in the wholesale buying or selling seen last fall, when hundred-point swings in the Dow became commonplace.  'We're shifting away from sort of painting the waterfront with broad brushes to more individual company and industry assessments,' he said.  Investors looked again for insights into what steps the new administration will take to lift the economy. Treasury Secretary-designate Timothy Geithner told the Senate Finance Committee that passing President Barack Obama's economic stimulus plan was essential. He also said the Senate's move last week to release the second half of the government's $700 billion financial industry rescue fund 'will enable us to take the steps necessary to help get credit flowing.'  The Dow Jones industrial average rose 279.01, or 3.5 percent, to 8,228.10.  Broader stock indicators also gained. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index advanced 35.02, or 4.4 percent, to 840.24, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 66.21, or 4.6 percent, to 1,507.07.  
