 Most Popular on washingtonpost.com  TOOLBOX  Resize  Save/Share +  COMMENT  Your browser's settings may be preventing you from commenting on and viewing comments about this item. See instructions for fixing the problem.  Discussion Policy  CLOSE  Comments that include profanity or personal attacks or other inappropriate comments or material will be removed from the site. Additionally, entries that are unsigned or contain 'signatures' by someone other than the actual author will be removed. Finally, we will take steps to block users who violate any of our posting standards, terms of use or privacy policies or any other policies governing this site. Please review the full rules governing commentaries and discussions. You are fully responsible for the content that you post.  Who's Blogging   Links to this article  Special to The Washington Post  NEW YORK -- Stocks plunged in early trading Wednesday on the government's weaker-than-expected retail sales report, which renewed anxieties on Wall Street over the economic impact of a weakened consumer.  The Dow Jones industrial average fell nearly 2.2 percent, or 185.26 points, to 8,263, with Citigroup and Bank of America leading the blue-chip index lower. The broader Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index was off 2.5 percent to 850points, while the technology heavy Nasdaq was down 2.3 percent lower at 1,511points.  The plunge in U.S. trading followed overnight gains in Asia, where the Nikkei and Hang Seng indexes both registered increases of just under 0.3 percent. But stocks already were moving lower in European trading, with the FTSE 100 closing more than 4 percent lower for the session and Germany's DAX down nearly 3.2 percent.  The 2.7 percent decline in December retail sales was more than twice as steep as the drop forecast by economists. The report prompted investors to look for pockets of relative safety, driving up the price of U.S. Treasury notes and pushing down yields on the 10-year debt to 2.21 percent.  If the Dow closes lower today, it would mark the fifth straight day of losses, as investors digest the news of a delayed stimulus bill and the brief New Year's rally wears off.  Financial stocks were being closely watched on Wall Street following yesterday's announcement of a merger between the brokerage units of Citigroup and Morgan Stanley. Citigroup shares fell nearly 14 percent, or 85 cents, to $5.08 in early trading. Morgan Stanley was off more than 2.8 percent at $18.32.  Among other financials, Bank of America was 4.2 percent lower at $10.20, while J.P. Morgan fell 4.7 percent to $25.12.  Shares of Tiffany fell about 6 percent to $20.67 after the high-end jewelry chain said holiday sales plunged by more than a fifth, led by a 30 percent decline in the United States.  'Deteriorating global economic conditions were clearly reflected in cautious spending by Tiffany customers across the entire range of jewelry categories and price points,' Tiffany Chairman and Chief Executive Michael J. Kowalski said in a statement. 'We believe these conditions will continue well into 2009.'  
