TSX pinned lower as bank and energy shares weigh  TORONTO (Reuters) - Toronto's main stock index was pinned lower at midmorning on Monday as financial issues fell on concerns about the British and U.S. banking sectors, while a drop in oil prices rattled energy shares. The energy and financial sectors, which together make up about half of the TSX led the decline with slides of 1.8 percent and 1.6 percent respectively.  Canada seeks quicker deployment of automotive aid  TORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian arms of General Motors and Chrysler should wrap up talks with Ottawa quickly on their restructuring plans because a 'drop dead' date for agreeing on terms for government aid is fast approaching, Industry Minister Tony Clement said on Monday. Clement said that February 20 is the deadline for the automakers to come up with a comprehensive plan that would allow them to get government aid.  UK banks thrown a lifeline as RBS posts record loss  LONDON/MADRID (Reuters) - Britain launched a second bank rescue plan on Monday and Royal Bank of Scotland recorded the biggest loss in UK corporate history, while a cut in Spain's credit rating caused fresh market wobbles. Announcing Britain's bank bailout, finance minister Alistair Darling said fourth-quarter GDP figures out on Friday would confirm the UK was in recession for the first time since 1992.  Canada pension giant slams TSX on HudBay deal: report  TORONTO (Reuters) - One of Canada's largest pension funds is complaining to the Toronto Stock Exchange about rules allowing HudBay Minerals Inc's plan for a highly dilutive share issue to pay for the takeover of a rival, the Globe and Mail reported on Monday. The newspaper said the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan is writing the TSX and urging it to change regulations that will allow HudBay to double its share count for the friendly takeover of Lundin Mining Corp without the approval of shareholders.  Fiat and Chrysler in partnership talks: report  TURIN, Italy (Reuters) - Fiat is talking with Chrysler LLC about giving it access to its technology in exchange for a stake in the U.S. car maker, a source close to the Italian group said on Monday. 'Between the two groups there is talk about Chrysler possibly using Fiat technology in exchange for a stake,' the source told Reuters, confirming a report by industry publication Automotive News Europe. The source spoke on condition of anonymity.  Oil falls towards $34 on gas deal, Gaza ceasefire  LONDON (Reuters) - Oil fell more than $2 toward $34 a barrel on Monday after Russia and Ukraine signed a 10-year gas deal clearing the way for the resumption of supplies to a freezing Europe. Implementation of a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas in Gaza also eased supply concerns as the market remained under pressure from expectations that the weakening global economy would erode oil demand.  Foreigners sell Canadian securities in November  OTTAWA (Reuters) - Foreign investors shed Canadian securities in November, cutting bonds and stocks in favor of more liquid short-term assets, and Canadians continued to repatriate funds from abroad, Statistics Canada said on Monday. Nonresidents reduced their Canadian portfolios in the month by a net C$4.3 billion ($3.4 billion), more than expected, on sales of C$5.4 billion in bonds -- the largest bond disposal since December 2005.  Citi says still committed to Japanese brokerage  TOKYO (Reuters) - Citigroup said on Monday it is still committed to its Japanese brokerage and asset management units, denying media reports that the U.S. bank is actively looking to unload a major part of its Japanese business. Citigroup, which reported an $8.3 billion quarterly loss on Friday, said it plans to split into two units and shed troubled assets.  Ferrovial set to mull early bids for Gatwick  LONDON (Reuters) - Ferrovial , under pressure from regulators to sell London's Gatwick airport, has received indicative offers from bidders including the operators of London City, Budapest and Chicago Midway airports. But although several parties are vying for Britain's second-busiest airport, none would comment on how much they might pay, and analysts said tough credit markets and a plunge in passenger numbers could crimp valuations.  Loonie weakens as oil drops and greenback firms  TORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar weakened against the U.S. currency on Monday, as the price of oil fell on easing supply concerns and as the greenback got support from a sullen economic picture in Europe. Canadian bond prices were lower across the board on optimism that recent international measures to prop up banks will ease credit conditions and help improve the global economic picture.   Reuters Limited. All Rights Reserved.  Reproduction or redistribution of Reuters content, including framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
