IF there were any doubts the resources boom was over, it was wiped by global mining leader BHP Billiton this week when it finally began an aggressive cull of its staff and operations.  BHP, the world's largest miner, was one of the last majors to finally admit that the severity of the downturn had forced it to review all its operations, with 6000 staff to be axed and production to be scaled back.  The Melbourne-based miner's move, which cost 3400 Australian jobs, included the closure of its Ravensthorpe laterite nickel mine in Western Australia, cuts to coking coal output from Queensland mines, the deferring of expansions at the Escondida copper mine in Chile and a slowdown to expansion works at Olympic Dam in South Australia.  The Yabulu nickel plant in Queensland, which processed ore from Ravensthorpe, is being tipped as the likely next casualty, with BHP not ruling out further streamlining.  BHP had repeatedly talked up its strength to continue investing through the cycle during the downturn but with no signs of commodities prices lifting and credit markets remaining tight, it had to finally admit this week its size was no longer a buffer to the deteriorating market conditions.  Minerals Council of Australia chief executive Mitch Hooke -- describing the shape of Australia's once vibrant mining sector as 'pretty ugly stuff' -- said that since July around 9000 jobs had been shed from the industry, with more expected.  'We are seeing a rationalisation of operations, and we are probably going to see some more of it as companies move to cut production as demand continues to drop off,' he said.  'It means that those operations that are on the higher end of the long run average cost curve are either going to have to shut down, go into care or maintenance or be shelved.'  ANZ Bank senior commodities analyst Mark Pervan said BHP's big announcement was a 'lag effect' from the initial shock seen through the commodities markets last year and warned it wouldn't be the last from the sector.  'The reaction from miners has been sharp and tough, but that has only been because the breadth of the price decline was so dramatic, so the reaction had to be dramatic,' he said.  Mr Pervan said the volatility in the market would continue and there could be a sharp rebound when markets recovered.  'The huge adjustments, with the downgrades, could create a strong rally before it levels out. But any rally will not be long-lived because there is still plenty of capacity sitting latent,' he said.  BHP's main rival, Rio Tinto, had already started its global overhaul, after BHP abandoned its $135 billion push to take over its competitor.  Since Rio flagged 14,000 global job cuts, a significant reduction in capital expenditure and the sale of assets to reduce its $US10 billion debt burden, the miner has slowly trickled out announcements detailing projects affected.  Rio has also previously announced cuts to iron ore and coking coal as steel demand in China weakens, with similar announcements from Brazil's Vale, the world's largest producer of iron ore.  Announcements of mine closures, production cutbacks and shelved expansion plans are being made on a daily basis in the industry, with no company immune from the declining commodities prices and tightening credit conditions.  Global Mining Investments chairman John Robinson said that out of all the cycles he had witnessed during his long history in the industry, the recent downturn was 'exceptional'.  'The change in the markets from the middle to the end of last year was the most dramatic event I've ever seen,' he said.  Mr Robinson said cash-generating companies were in a holding pattern and focusing on reducing costs while waiting for an uplift in China's economy.  He added that at the other end of the spectrum, the junior explorers were in a more difficult situation because they only survived by tapping into equity markets and would receive no support in the near term.  'The next phase we are going to see is the cash-generators starting to critically look at the juniors and there will be further industry consolidation,' he said.  ABN AMRO mining analyst Warren Edney said Australia's resources sector was 'not good' at the moment.  'Pure base metals plays are suffering -- as are small companies with less robust balance sheets and those that are reliant on banks to extend lines of credit,' he said.  Macquarie analyst Len Eldridge agreed it was a 'tough industry' and that projects not already funded were under pressure.  He said the junior end of the market was trimming back as much as possible, but trying to maintain production in the hope of what China might do.  'It is difficult to shut down and then start producing again quickly,' he said.  Hartleys resource analyst Andrew Muir said it was obvious the base metals producers had been heavily affected by the falling commodity prices.  'The industry is hurting at the moment because of the reduction in margins and we are seeing production scaled back and reduced workforces. They really are doing it tough out there,' he said.  'People recognise that China is slowing and that the resources boom has slowed dramatically and it may take China a while to get going again.'  Mr Hooke said the '64-billon dollar question' was to what extent emerging economies such as China, India, Russia and Brazil would offset the decline in the developed economies.  'China accounts for around a third of global growth, Western Europe a 12th and the US a 10th in the decade to date, so what it means is the growth centres are increasingly shifting to the emerging countries,' he said.  'So, when you start to see China and India hiccup in terms of their growth -- on top of the recessions already in Western Europe and the United States and Japan -- then it is starting to get pretty ugly.'  Arguing that the underlying fundamentals were still sound, Mr Hooke added that China was still growing, despite the fact it had come off considerably.  'There's a crisis of confidence in the capital markets, but there will be a turnaround when demand kicks up to supply,' he said.  
