Despite renewed government efforts to prop up ailing banks, financial stocks slumped Friday and caused the broader market to erase an early round of gains. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up nearly 130 points at its morning high, but recently was down 15 points, trading 0.2% lower at 8197.59. It is being hurt by heavy declines in most of its financial components. Citigroup was the only gainer, up 0.5% after the government moved to back $400 billion of its assets. Citigroup also reported an $8.29 billion quarterly loss and said it would split into two business units, with one made up of brokerage and retail asset management, local consumer finance and a special asset pool. Shares in other financial blue chips fared much worse. Bank of America tumbled 9% after reporting a $1.79 billion loss and receiving a $20 billion injection of government funds to bolster its balance sheet. J.P. Morgan Chase fell almost 8%, while American Express was down almost 4%. As the financial sector's losses have mounted on Friday, they've begun to outweigh gains in other market categories. That pattern is a familiar - and frustrating - one to many investors who believe the broader market is due for a rebound after a late-2008 swoon that adequately factored in many of the risks ahead. 'I still believe this is primarily a crisis of confidence, not fundamentals,' said strategist Jim Paulsen, of Wells Capital Management, in Minneapolis. 'The bogeyman in the closet is more frightening than what we know to be true.' The capital injection into Bank of America and the guarantees for them and Citigroup are 'still treating the symptoms,' said Michael Darda, an economist with MKM Partners in Greenwich, Conn. 'The underlying cause is falling home prices and highly leveraged households,' he said. Mr. Darda ran some data on the last 'bottom' for financial stocks, and the broad market after a banking crisis, January 1991. Back then, the inventory of houses on the market was far less than it is now, and interbank borrowing rates were much closer to Treasury rates. In other words, the banks are still working their way through this crisis. 'No one knows whether these are going to be ongoing viable concerns, and we still have an environment where there's too much capacity in the financial sector and that needs to be taken down over time,' he said. Some traders are beginning to mistrust 'bailout rallies' as 'artificial bottoms.' They are reluctant to buy into these moves until the stock market can rally on something other than a report of government intervention. 'With government bailouts, the market reacts positively at first -- and then a couple of weeks later, we realize this is an even bigger mess than was before,' said Joe Saluzzi, head trader at Themis Trading. Mr. Saluzzi believes the S&amp;P 500 may eventually dip below 700 before this bear market is over. The broad measure was recently flat, trading just below 845, hurt by a 4% slide in its financial sector. The strongest categories were utilities and health care, up about 1% each. Both are traditional safe-haven bets. Other market yardsticks moved from early gains to losses. The small-stock Russell 2000 was off 0.7% to 459.44. The technology-oriented Nasdaq Composite Index fell 0.3% to trade at 1507.24, its losses held in check by a 1% rise in Intel after the world's top chip maker reported a 90% profit drop, in line with analysts' estimates. Crude-oil prices held steady despite a prediction of slumping energy demand from the International Energy Agency. Futures gained seven cents to $35.49 a barrel in New York. Treasury prices fell. The two-year note shed 1/32 to yield 0.741%. The 10-year note fell 1-12/32 to yield 2.349%. The 30-year bond was down 1-30/32, yielding 2.951%. The dollar was mixed, weakening versus the euro but trading higher against the yen. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the greenback's value against a basket of six overseas denominations, slipped 0.5%. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
