A man looks at quotation board flashing share princes of the Tokyo Stock Exchange  Photograph by: TORU YAMANAKA/AFP/, AFP/  LONDON  World stocks rose from the previous day's one-month low on Friday while government bonds and the yen slipped after Washington rescued Bank of America and Congress advanced emergency economic aid plans.  Bank of America will receive another US$20-billion in U.S. government cash and a guarantee against almost US$100-billion of potential losses on toxic assets after its acquisition of Merrill Lynch.  The U.S. Congress also advanced legislation to provide nearly US$1.2-trillion in emergency spending to fight the worsening economic recession triggered by the global lending crisis.  'The rescue package for Bank of America will give a fillip,' said Bernard McAlinden, strategist at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin. MSCI world equity index rose 1.4%, after falling to a one-month low on Thursday. The FTSEurofirst 300 index of leading European shares rose 2.2%.  Despite the rise on Friday, the index is on course for its biggest weekly fall since late November.  Emerging stocks rose 1.8%.  U.S. crude oil rose 1% to US$35.74 a barrel.  In the European government bond market, March German bund futures fell 52 ticks.  The low-yielding yen, which tends to outperform in times of risk aversion, weakened 0.7% to 90.45 per dollar.  The dollar fell 0.5% against a basket of major currencies.  The euro gained 0.8% to US$1.3230 having hit a five-week low of US$1.3025 on Thursday after the European Central Bank cut interest rates to 2%.  The cost of protecting Ireland's debt against default rose sharply after Ireland nationalized Anglo-Irish Bank.  Five-year credit default swaps on Ireland's sovereign debt were quoted by traders as high as 250 basis points from 184 bps on Monday, meaning it costs 250,000 euros to protect 10 million euros of debt.  'At worst it's going to lead to fresh worries about how the Irish economy survives this crisis and how they can service their increasing debt burden,' Deutsche Bank credit strategist Jim Reid said in a research note.  
