SHANGHAI, Jan 7 (Reuters) - Weak banks and other blue chips pulled down China's main stock index on Wednesday, although many second-tier shares gained in active trade.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which had climbed 6.39 percent in the previous two days, closed down 0.68 percent at 1,924.012 points.  But gaining Shanghai A shares outnumbered losers by 489 to 408, and turnover in Shanghai A shares remained fairly active at 63.7 billion yuan ($9.3 billion) against Tuesday's 68.7 billion.  'The market is taking a break after its rally early this week, but it is still likely to touch the 2,000-point level in coming days,' said Zhang Yanbing, analyst at Zheshang Securities.  China Construction Bank fell 2.52 percent to 3.87 yuan after Bank of America  (nyse: BAC -  news  -  people ) sold $2.83 billion of its Hong Kong-listed H shares in Construction Bank at a 12 percent discount, pushing the H shares down over 8 percent.  Zhang said the sale was not a major surprise, but the possibility of more such sales of Chinese bank stocks later this year might continue to weigh on the market. Bank of China , in which institutions including Royal Bank of Scotland  (nyse: RBS -  news  -  people ) and Singapore's Temasek are major investors, slipped 1.96 percent to 3.01 yuan.  (Reporting by Claire Zhang; Editing by Andrew Torchia)  ((junjie.zhang@thomsonreuters.com; (8621) 6104-1775; Reuters  Messaging: junjie.zhang.reuters.com@reuters.net)) Hong Kong report Taiwan report Shanghai indices Shenzhen indices Hong Kong indices H-share index Red share index SPEED GUIDES RELATED NEWS AND OTHER TOPICS China news All equity news Greater China news Chinese summary Hong Kong news Chinese hot stocks Taiwan news China IPOs Chinese diary Hong Kong IPOs Press digests Keywords: MARKETS CHINA STOCKS CLOSE  (Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for: * 3000 Xtra : visit http://topnews.session.rservices.com * BridgeStation: view story .134 * Reuters Plus: from your WebDSS screen For more information on Top News, visit http://topnews.reuters.com)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
