TSX drops as energy and financials weigh  TORONTO (Reuters) - Toronto's main stock index was lower on Monday morning as a drop in oil prices triggered a selloff in the energy sector, while weighty financial shares dropped on concerns about the U.S. banking sector. The financial sector, which makes up about 33 percent of the overall TSX index, fell 1 percent to lead the slide, while the energy sector followed with a drop of 0.75 percent.  Canada says to offer auto aid if conditions met  TORONTO (Reuters) - Canada will offer previously announced aid funds to domestic automakers if they need liquidity and meet conditions, Canadian Industry Minister Tony Clement said on Monday. Clement, who said more auto-sector announcements will be made around the time of next week's federal budget, also said Canada will make a C$350 million ($280 million) capital investment in the Business Development Bank of Canada.  UK throws banks a lifeline as RBS posts record loss  LONDON/MADRID (Reuters) - Britain launched a second bank rescue plan on Monday and Royal Bank of Scotland recorded the biggest loss in UK corporate history, while a cut in Spain's credit rating caused fresh market wobbles. Announcing Britain's bank bailout, finance minister Alistair Darling said fourth-quarter GDP figures out on Friday would confirm the UK was in recession for the first time since 1992.  Canada pension giant slams TSX on HudBay deal: report  TORONTO (Reuters) - One of Canada's largest pension funds is complaining to the Toronto Stock Exchange about rules allowing HudBay Minerals Inc's plan for a highly dilutive share issue to pay for the takeover of a rival, the Globe and Mail reported on Monday. The newspaper said the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan is writing the TSX and urging it to change regulations that will allow HudBay to double its share count for the friendly takeover of Lundin Mining Corp without the approval of shareholders.  Oil falls towards $34 on gas deal and Gaza ceasefire  LONDON (Reuters) - Oil fell more than $2 toward $34 a barrel on Monday as signs of a resolution of a gas row between Russia and Ukraine and after a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas in Gaza eased supply concerns. The market remained under pressure from expectations the weakening global economy would erode oil demand. The International Energy Agency and other forecasters cut their 2009 demand forecasts last week.  Foreigners sell Canadian securities in November  OTTAWA (Reuters) - Foreign investors shed Canadian securities in November, cutting bonds and stocks in favor of more liquid short-term assets, and Canadians continued to repatriate funds from abroad, Statistics Canada said on Monday. Nonresidents reduced their Canadian portfolios in the month by a net C$4.3 billion ($3.4 billion), more than expected, on sales of C$5.4 billion in bonds -- the largest bond disposal since December 2005.  Citi says still committed to Japanese brokerage  TOKYO (Reuters) - Citigroup said on Monday it is still committed to its Japanese brokerage and asset management units, denying media reports that the U.S. bank is actively looking to unload a major part of its Japanese business. Citigroup, which reported an $8.3 billion quarterly loss on Friday, said it plans to split into two units and shed troubled assets.  Satyam to appoint bankers to find buyer: report  MUMBAI (Reuters) - The new board of fraud-hit Satyam Computer Services Ltd is looking to appoint up to three investment banks to explore the possibility of finding a buyer for the Indian outsourcer, the Economic Times reported on Monday. It said Goldman Sachs , JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank were under consideration and a final decision is likely this week, the newspaper said, citing unnamed people familiar with the development.  RBS shares slide to 23-year low on record loss  LONDON (Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotland unveiled the biggest loss in British corporate history on Monday, overshadowing a second government bailout for the sector and sending its shares reeling to a 23-year low. RBS said it would report a 2008 loss of up to 28 billion pounds ($41 billion), driven largely by a goodwill impairment charge of 15 to 20 billion pounds related to its acquisition of parts of Dutch rival ABN AMRO in 2007.  Investors bank on hefty rate cut  TORONTO (Reuters) - Investors are counting on the Bank of Canada to deliver a hefty 50 basis point interest rate cut on Tuesday, with anything less likely to knock the country's already fragile stock market lower, analysts say. A minority of market players are holding out hope the central bank will cut rates even further, a move that would likely spur gains in cyclical energy, materials and consumer stocks, said Paul Taylor, chief investment officer at BMO Harris Investment Management Inc.   Reuters Limited. All Rights Reserved.  Reproduction or redistribution of Reuters content, including framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
