Oil steady below $36 Crude prices slip as traders believe continued economic slump will cut further into demand for fuel. LONDON (Reuters) -- Oil slipped further below $36 a barrel on Thursday as worries over the health of the global economy and forecasts for a hefty fall in global energy demand weighed on sentiment. Global economic downturn is taking its toll on oil consumption and supply still appears to be outstripping demand in many parts of the world, despite production cuts by members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. Oil prices continued to weaken despite a deal in the U.S. Congress on Wednesday on $789 billion in new spending and tax cuts. U.S. light crude for March delivery was down 10 cents at $35.84. Traders said the short-term direction of the market was being dominated by movements in stock markets, which opened lower in Europe on Thursday, and the dollar, which rose against a basket of major currencies. "Overall the market appears to be slipping," said a dealer at a large London brokerage. "Oil demand is falling and a lot of attention is being paid to macro-economic data." Unemployment Traders awaited U.S. weekly jobless claims and January retail sales data due at 8:30 a.m. ET on Thursday, which will give a clearer indication of how the U.S. economy is faring. Oil has tumbled around 10% this week, having fallen four sessions in a row since last Friday, on demand worries and fears the U.S. bank rescue plan would not go far enough to revive the ailing financial sector. Oil prices took a battering on Wednesday after the U.S. Energy Information Administration said domestic crude stocks had increased 4.7 million barrels to 350.8 million in the week to Feb. 6, against a forecast for a rise of 3.1 million. The latest increase in U.S. crude stocks comes on the heels of a combined rise of more than 13 million barrels in the prior two weeks, and crude inventories are now moving significantly above their five-year range. Oil's losses were further exacerbated by a separate report from the International Energy Agency forecasting global demand to contract by nearly a million barrels per day -- the most since 1982 -- to 84.7 million barrels per day in 2009. Underlining the damage caused by the global financial crisis, data showed global trade activity in goods and commodities had dropped. The March Brent ICE futures contract expires on Thursday and traders said they expected the premium for Brent over U.S. crude futures, also known as WTI, to stretch further, reflecting very high stock levels at Cushing, the delivery point for the U.S. futures contract. "We are probably going to see WTI maintain or worsen its discount to Brent," said Harry Tchilinguirian, analyst at BNP Paribas in London.
