It was a day unlike any other in the summer of 217 BC. Morning mist covered the hills along the northern shore of the lake.  Marching in column formation in the shadow of the hills along the narrow road (where today runs the main highway between Perugia and Siena) were two legions led by Gaius Flaminius Nepos, incensed by the devastation caused by a Carthaginian army on Roman soil. He intended to find the general Hannibal Barca and end his impudence on that very day. But the man responsible for building the famous Via Flaminia between Roma and Ariminum (Rimini) three years earlier, was so bent on revenge that he ignored the obvious signs of heavenly displeasure. At the start of the day's march his horse tumbled to the ground suddenly for no apparent reason. And as equally inexplicable, the standard bearer found he could not move the standard. Later historians would say that violent earthquakes were felt throughout Italy on that same day. And then there was the lake itself: a beautiful spot but one with a tragic history. Legends recalled that is was named after Trasimene, the son of an Etruscan king who became infatuated with a nymph called Agilla who lured him into the water where he drowned.  On this day it was the Romans who were lured to the water's edge through a narrow bottleneck between the hills and the northern shore of Lago Trasimeno. Unseen by the marching cohorts the entire Carthaginian army was lying in wait, completely hidden by the morning mist upon the heavily wooded heights: allied Celts, Iberian infantry both the light armed caetrati and sword-wielding scutarri in their white tunics lined with purple, Balearic slingers, African infantry of mixed Libyan and Phoenician descent; heavy Spanish and Celtic cavalry supported by light Numidian cavalry and the now one-eyed Hannibal with the single surviving elephant. They had been waiting in expectant silence since the previous night.  When the Roman army made contact with the Carthaginian light infantry waiting at the head of the valley the Roman front ranks began to deploy in battle order. But at that moment the Carthaginian forces came sweeping down from the hills. The Roman rearguard was still marching through the bottleneck and was virtually swept into the lake by the Celtic cavalry. The men around Flaminius were also caught in marching order and before they could form their triple ranks were cut down where they stood. General Flaminius was butchered alongside his men. In his classic work The Second Punic War (1886) Thomas Arnold wrote: "The stillness of the mist was broken by barbarian war-cries on every side, and both flanks of the Roman column were assailed at once. Their right was overwhelmed by a storm of javelins and arrows shot as if from the midst of darkness and strking into the soldier's unguarded side where he had no shield to cover him; while ponderous stones, against which no shield or helmet could avail, came crashing down upon their heads. On the left were heard the trampling of horse and the well-known war-cries of the Gauls; and presently Hannibal's cavalry emerged from the mist, and were in an instant in the midst of their ranks; and the huge forms of the Gauls and their vast broadswords broke in upon them at the same time."  In three hours the slaughter was over. The only Romans to escape were those at the front of the column who had managed to deploy and cut their way out up Mount Castelluccio. They were later overtaken by Carthaginian cavalry and light troops and forced to surrender. When the mist cleared, 15,000 Romans lay dead and 4,000 were taken prisoner for the loss of less than 2,500 Carthaginian troops. For centuries afterwards the Battle of Lake Trasimene has been regarded as the "classic" ambush and its mastermind, Hannibal, remembered as one of the greatest generals to have ever led men to war. But underlying the very real life and death struggles on that day in 217BC was an even more ancient struggle featuring the goddess known to the Greeks as Aphrodite, to the Romans as Venus and to the Carthaginians/Phoenicians as Astarte.  Once upon a time, a people called the Elymians (recent archeological finds confirm they came from Anatolia) migrated to the western tip of Sicily. The Greeks identified them as Trojans and Thucydides, in particular, claimed they were refugees from Troy. Virgil says they were led to Sicily by Acestes. According to one legend Acestes was the son of the Sicilian river-god Crinisus (who appeared in the form of a bear) and the Trojan princess Segesta. So it was these people from Troy who founded the town of Segesta and the Temple of Aphrodite on Mount Eryx (the Temple of Venus Erycina). Just like Mary Magdalene was later to become, Venus Erycina was the patron of "impure women". Ritual prostitution was a key part of her cult. Most people know that Aeneas, son of Anchises (cousin to King Priam of Troy) and Aphrodite herself, has always been claimed to have been the ancestor of the people known to history as the Romans. Aeneas was the father of Ascanius also known as Iulus or Julius (with Creusa) and of Silvius (with Lavinia). The former, also known as Iulus (or Julius) founded Alba Longa and was the first in a long series of kings. According to the mythology provided by Virgil in the Aeneid, Romulus and Remus were both descendants of Aeneas through their mother Rhea Silvia. The Julian family of Rome, including Julius Caesar and Augustus, traced their lineage to Ascanius and Aeneas, thus to the goddess Venus. As the story goes it was after the fall of Troy that he led a group of survivors on a long search for a new homeland in the West.  After six years of wandering Aeneas and the Trojans made landfall in Carthage. Virgil tells the story of the year-long love affair between the Carthaginian Queen Dido (Elissa) who offered him joint-rule if he and his people would settle there. But compelled by Zeus and Aphrodite to continue his search for a new homeland he departed leaving Dido to commit suicide in her grief uttering the curse that would forever turn Carthage and Rome against each other. It was at this point that the Trojans went to Sicily where they were welcomed by Acestes and the Elymians who held funeral games for Aeneas' father there. It was at this point that Aeneas is said to have founded the temple of Venus at Eryx - a place which is still considered by some to be of great religious significance. In his work "On the Nautre of Animals", Aelian (ca 175235 AD) wrote that animals chosen for sacrifice would voluntarily walk up to the altar to be killed there. In the 1st Punic War between Carthage and Rome several attempts were made to gain control of the area. For a time, Hannibal's own father Hamilcar held the territory but the Romans wrested control of the temple from them with a decisive victory in 241 BC. Today, on the site of the ancient temple stands the enigmatic remains of the Norman fortress, fittingly called the "Venus Castle". If you really want to stretch your mind think of the much celebrated Tour Magdala of Rennes-le-Chteau as a modern-day model of the Venus Castle.  Totally unrelated but part of one of the science community's most intriguing mysteries, Erice (today's name for Eryx) is also the site of the Ettore Majorana Centre for Scientific Culture. Ettore Majorana (5 August 1906 - unknown) was an Italian theoretical physicist who disappeared after pioneering revolutionarywork on neutrino masses. After returning to Rome from Nazi Germany in 1933, he spent the next four years as a reclusive hermit; shutting himself off from friends and publishing nothing. He disappeared on March 27, 1938 after withdrawing a large amount of money from his bank account and his fate remains unknown. There were rumors that he was sighted in South America in the 1950s and the story made news in Italy when a man found living on the street claimed that he was once a famous physicist. So what does the Temple of Venus Erycina have to do with the ambush at Lake Trasimene?&amp;nbsp; Well, after the slaughter the Romans blamed the defeat on Gaius Flaminius' flagrant disregard of the ominous signs and portents. The issue of his religious offences was officially brought before the Senate in 216 BC. In order to make amends, on the advice of the Libri Sibylinni (Sibylline Books), a temple to Venus Erycina was constructed on the Capitoline Hill. The Sibylline Books were a collection of oracular utterances collected in Anatolia in the neighborhood of Troy, set out in Greek hexameters and consulted at momentous crises. Only fragments have survived, the rest being lost or deliberately destroyed. Not long after the temple of Venus of Erycina was built, fortune began to shine again on the military efforts of the Romans - those wayward descendants of Aeneas the Trojan. So if you happen to take a visit to the area of Lago Trasimeno, remember to pause for a moment and think about the fates of Hannibal and Flaminius and do not forget to thank Venus Erycina for your continued good fortune in battle. And finally, never ignore the warning signs of impending doom.
