       Fannie, Freddie May Avoid Bailout After All: Analysts  By CNBC.com With Wires CNBC.com    26 Aug 2008   01:37 PM ET  Are Fannie and Freddie out of the woodsat least for now?  Shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac climbed for a second day Tuesday amid growing expectations on Wall Street that the mortgage finance giants will be able to weather the housing storm without a government rescue.  The companies have come under intense scrutiny over the past few months on investor speculation that mortgage losses would cause shortfalls in capital, and lead to a bailout by the U.S. Treasury.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac shares have tumbled since May with analysts contending a taxpayer-funded rescue could leave shares worthless.  But after Freddie Mac completed a $2 billion debt sale on Monday, two Wall Street firms said the government-sponsored companies have an adequate capital cushion to absorb billions of dollars in losses from soured mortgages in the near term, meaning a federal bailout could be avoided.  &amp;amp;quot;While press reports have made clear that (Freddie) is having little success raising private capital, it does not seem to be having any difficulty attracting investors in&amp;amp;quot; its debt, Barclays Capital analysts wrote in a research note.  Meanwhile, Citigroup analyst Bradley Ball asserted that shareholder interests would likely be preserved despite increased chances for &amp;amp;quot;extraordinary&amp;amp;quot; actions by the companies and policymakers.  And a Goldman Sachs report said the Treasury could take several steps to buttress Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac before taking direct take control of the mortgage finance companies.  The two housing finance companies, which own or guarantee nearly half of all outstanding U.S. mortgages, have reported losses for the past four quarters, but both companies currently meet regulatory capital requirements and are rolling over their debt on schedule.  Fannie Mae reported Tuesday that its mortgage portfolio grew to $758.1 billion in July from $749.6 billion in June, and $729.8 billion in July 2007. Freddie said its portfolio increased to $798.2 billion in July from $791.8 billion in June, and $720.6 billion in July 2007.  Freddie reported that delinquencies on single-family mortgages held on its books rose eight basis points in July, or eight of every 1,000 mortgages, to 1.01 percent from 0.93 percent in June, and 0.44 percent in July 2007.  Fannie didn&amp;#039;t provide comparable delinquencies data for July, but in June,showed an increase of six basis points, to 1.36 percent from 1.30 percent in May, and 0.64 percent in June 2007.  Concern also has been growing that a government rescue of Fannie and Freddiewhose share prices have plunged in recent weekscould be costly for scores of investment, banking and insurance companies that hold billions of dollars in their preferred shares.  The two companies had nearly $36 billion in preferred shares outstanding as of June 30, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  In the coming weeks, Wall Street will be closely watching the results of several debt auctions by the two companies.  Freddie&amp;#039;s next long-term debt sale, typically five-year notes, is scheduled for Sept. 2. The company also has a sale of one-month notes set for Wednesday, and of three- to six-month bills for Sept. 22.  Fannie&amp;#039;s calendar describes three- to six-month bill sales as weekly but doesn&amp;#039;t provide a date; it says one-year bills are sold monthly. Its next long-term debt sale of two- to 10-year notes is scheduled for Sept. 8.  
