Prices of Treasury coupon securities have registered modest losses as trading resumes following the Labor Day holiday yesterday. Bond prices have slumped in response to equity market enthusiasm in Europe. Most European exchanges are posting gains of more than one percent as oil has tumbled more than $8 because the damage to energy producing facilities [...] Prices of Treasury coupon securities have registered modest losses as trading resumes following the Labor Day holiday yesterday. Bond prices have slumped in response to equity market enthusiasm in Europe. Most European exchanges are posting gains of more than one percent as oil has tumbled more than $8 because the damage to energy producing facilities in the Gulf of Mexico from Hurricane Gustav has been minimal. That has set the animal spirits racing among stock investors who see the decline in energy prices as a friendly development as the decline in energy prices should bring a decline in inflation and inflationary expectations. That should bring tears of joy to even the most hardened among the policy makers at the ECB who desire to raise rates as unemployment spirals higher.At the moment (615AM in New York) the yield on the benchmark 2 year note has climbed 3 basis points to 2.40 percent. The yield on the 5 year note has jumped 4 basis points to 3.13 percent. The benchmark 10 year note has seen its yield climb to 3.86 percent and the yield on the Long Bond is higher by 3 basis points at 4.45 percent. The 2year/10 year spread has widened by 2 basis points to 146 basis points. There were other interesting stories overnight which should provide the background for some volatile trading today and this week. The dollar has broken to new highs versus the Euro as well as the pound sterling. The Euro traded below $1.45 and the sterling in a stunning plunge has traded as low as $1.7830. The Reserve Bank of Australia responded to the weak economy there and dropped rates for the first time in 7 years as it lowered its base rate from 7.25 percent to 7.00percent. The Spanish economy is in a very deep funk as unemployment there reached a 10 year high of 11 percent. Eurozone PPI rose a less than expected 1.1 percent in July as energy led the gains. In the UK the beleaguered ruling Labor Party has proposed a packaged to aid the depressed UK housing market. Some opinion polls have the Labor Party trailing the opposition conservatives by nearly 20 points. The Financial Times has also wheeled out once again the story that the KDB and two other Korean financial enterprise might jointly invest in wounded Lehman Brothers. The US markets await data today on construction and the monthly ISM report.
