German businesses are now as pessimistic about the future as they were when the country crashed into recession in the early 1990s after a period of post-unification euphoria.  A weakening euro and falling oil price were not enough to encourage German companies, which have scaled back their hopes for business development in the next six months.  This pushed the Ifo expectations index down to 87 in August from 89.9 in July - the worst since 1993.  The survey will only heighten concern that Europe's largest economy is slipping into recession, spelling bad news for the eurozone as a whole.  The German economy contracted for the first time in almost four years in the second quarter. Gross domestic product fell 0.5pc, compared with a 1.3pc rise in the first quarter and much worse than economists were expecting.  Germany's recent economic decline has already had a big impact on the rest of Europe, contributing to a 0.2pc fall in eurozone GDP in the second quarter, the first time the European economy has shrunk since the euro was launched almost a decade ago.  A worsening business environment in German manufacturing and construction negatively affected confidence and the Ifo Business Climate Index fell to 94.8 in August from 97.5 in July, falling for a third month in a row to its lowest level since June 2005.  Looking six months ahead, the survey respondents expected export business to weaken, and were being more cautious about hiring new employees.  However, &amp;amp;quot;the situation is not hopeless,&amp;amp;quot; according to Holger Schmieding, chief European economist at Bank of America.  &amp;amp;quot;In the absence of a new oil shock, the less overvalued euro should gradually encourage a less gloomy outlook over time,&amp;amp;quot; he said.  Oil has started to fall back from a record high of $147 last month, but Lord Browne, the former chief executive of BP has predicted that prices are unlikely to fall below $100 a barrel. It's &amp;amp;quot;very difficult to see,&amp;amp;quot; he said. &amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;PLIGG_Visual_RSS_OriginalNews
