Press Release   Release Date: October 29, 2008      For release at 3:30 p.m. EDT      Today, the Federal Reserve, the Banco Central do Brasil, the Banco  de Mexico, the Bank of Korea, and the Monetary Authority of  Singapore are announcing the establishment of temporary reciprocal  currency arrangements (swap lines). These facilities, like those  already established with other central banks, are designed to help  improve liquidity conditions in global financial markets and to  mitigate the spread of difficulties in obtaining U.S. dollar  funding in fundamentally sound and well managed economies.      Federal Reserve Actions   In response to the heightened stress associated with the global  financial turmoil, which has broadened to emerging market  economies, the Federal Reserve has authorized the establishment of  temporary liquidity swap facilities with the central banks of these  four large and systemically important economies. These new  facilities will support the provision of U.S. dollar liquidity in  amounts of up to $30 billion each by the Banco Central do Brasil,  the Banco de Mexico, the Bank of Korea, and the Monetary Authority  of Singapore.      These reciprocal currency arrangements have been authorized through  April 30, 2009.      The FOMC previously authorized temporary reciprocal currency  arrangements with ten other central banks: the Reserve Bank of  Australia, the Bank of Canada, Danmarks Nationalbank, the Bank of  England, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan, the Reserve  Bank of New Zealand, the Norges Bank, the Sveriges Riksbank, and  the Swiss National Bank.      IMF Announcement   Separately, the Federal Reserve welcomes the announcement today by  the International Monetary Fund of the establishment of the  Short-Term Liquidity Facility, which is designed to help member  countries that are facing temporary liquidity problems in the  global capital markets. The Federal Reserve is supportive of the  IMF&amp;#039;s role in helping countries address and resolve their ongoing  economic and financial difficulties.      Information on Related Actions Being Taken by Other Central Banks  and by the IMF   Information on the actions that will be taken by central banks and  by the International Monetary Fund is available at the following  websites:       http://investorshub.advfn.com/boards/board.aspx?board_id=13404 
