   Down house prices go!       9:36 AM, 22 Oct 2008      Tony Boyd   Lenders get tough       Anecdotal evidence collected from a range of participants in the housing sector suggests banks are tightening their lending criteria to mitigate the risks of being caught as the economy slows and house prices fall.      The anecdotes point to banks applying much tougher loan to valuation ratios (LVR) and demanding higher levels of income to cover loan repayments.      Competition for customers among the major lenders is said to be much less intense than earlier this year as banks become more selective in their approach to lending.      At a time when the emphasis is on building capital ratios rather than striving for asset growth, banks have become more cautious in the loans they write.      It is believed the more conservative stance is in anticipation of rising loan defaults.      Home loan defaults, which have been rising sharply over the past year, tend to lag interest rate increases by about 12 months. Loan delinquencies in the latest bank accounts would relate to Reserve Bank rate rises from November last year. The RBA only stopped raising interest rates in March this year.      Deteriorating conditions were seen in National Australia Bank&amp;#039;s results, which showed the bank&amp;#039;s 90 days past due retail delinquency rate rose 10 basis points to 81 basis points between March and September due to rising mortgage delinquencies in Australia and New Zealand.      The biggest impact from tighter lending standards is being felt by the self-employed who previously relied upon non-bank lenders offering low-doc loans. Low-doc loans only comprise about 1 or 2 per cent of all outstanding home loans, but it is believed the tougher lending criteria are being applied to full-doc borrowers.      One anecdote involved a tradesman on the NSW Central Coast with a low doc loan who had an LVR of 80 per cent and wanted to increase the loan amount to fund expansion of his business. A major bank told him that he could have the money provided the LVR was lowered to 70 per cent. This was not possible because his house had fallen in value.      Industry sources said low-doc lending was still occurring but that LVRs had been wound back to as low as 65 per cent.      The RBA noted in its recent financial stability review that credit had become less available for higher risk borrowers.      Small businesses that had previously relied on non-conforming home loans with interest rates of 9.5 per cent to finance their businesses are being told by major banks to shift to business loans secured by home mortgages but with interest rates of 12 per cent.      Another anecdote involved an architect who had pre-approval for a full-doc loan with an LVR of 95 per cent. When he tried to roll the loan over while he continued his search for a house, the bank changed the LVR to 80 per cent.      One factor that is said to have influenced the banks is the tougher conditions included in lenders&amp;#039; mortgage insurance policies.      It is not clear whether the tightening of credit criteria is being confined to particular geographic areas or particular types of assets, as occurred several years ago when lending for inner city apartments had a maximum LVR of 70 per cent.      Financial results from Westpac, due next week, should provide a test of whether or not tougher lending criteria actually help to reduce default rates.      Westpac moved into a tightening bias 18 months ago. It made adjustments to various factors including serviceability levels and property valuation requirements. A bank spokeswoman said lending criteria were reviewed constantly as part of sound business management.      source:  http://www.businessspectator.com.au/...cument&amp;amp;amp;src=sph        
