Agreed 100% Tsquad, there are so many variables to this, and it will need a huge volume day, way above the norm, to signal that things are capable of moving higher. This is a crystal vase that was knocked off a pedestal, it smashed, it will be repaired, bit by bit, but it will never be what it was. Things have changed. Great point.      Here is another point to note, in regard to interest rates, equities, and dead cat bounces:     What About Inflation?     At no time over the past two years has any mention been made of inflation pressures reducing, and up until just last week we have heard that inflation pressures are still at the fore of central bankers minds. The Bank of England, the ECB, the Swiss National Bank, the Federal Reserve, and the Reserve Bank of Australia, have all stated that inflation has/had held them back for looking at any kind of rate adjustments. We have been told, and can see in what we pay each day at the check-outs, that inflation really is an issue, and in a low interest rate environment we will now see inflation strip further the gap between 4-5% inflation, and 1.5% interest rates. Oil coming off $100 will help, but we are still deep in global onfaltion compared now to where interest rates are sitting.     The 3% gap in the U.S., and the 1-2% gap regionally, between interest and inflation rates have been ignored in the rate cuts on Wednesday, but make no mistake that these cuts will be reversed as quickly as possible in an effort to maintain price stability. The ECB, for example, have hung their hat on higher inflation rates, forcing them to hold rates higher and right now, will need to see a dramatic return on their gamble to cut. That pay-back will come in the form of equity markets moving higher, confidence returning, and consumers re-setting their budgets on the back of a floor being put in on their investment portfolios, and house values.     If the rate cuts do not quickly boost the equity markets there may be another round of cuts, but at such a high forward cost in inflationary terms that most central banks will be very reluctant to do so. The global future just got mortgaged, and to an equity market that may not be qualified to take the loan. Pandora&amp;#039;s Box has been opened, the markets now have to deal with expectation, and that is nothing to get excited about right now.
