having spent much of this week at home battling the bronchitis bug (translation: watching TLC, HGTV, and other assorted TV), i have been brought face to face with some harsh realities.1. my love of vera bradley (vb) bags is keeping me from having a deep and meaningful friendship with stacey london of TLC's "what not to wear" ... i often go out in public wearing sweatpants, grungy shirts and croc sandals in the hopes that my friends and family are secretly videotaping me in order to nominate me for the show. i own pants with elastic waistbands, shirts that are a little too baggy, a tonne of hand-me-downs and "i-paid-less-than-$10-for-this!" items to further the cause. but, so far, no luck. this week i discovered that stacey REALLY doesn't like floral print fabric bags. i am still in denial (as i love me some cute vb) - and i tell myself that since i don't carry a LARGE bag with a MAJOR pattern that clashes with my clothes (actually, they coordinate nicely), i can get away with it. but i suspect i may be deluding myself. however, until stacey and clinton show up to offer me the $5000 bank of america card and a shopping trip in nyc, i am going to enjoy my obsession ... including the new one that is showing up for christmas!!2. i will never be a recipient of an "extreme makeover: home edition" ... the fact that i don't own a home seems like a solid enough reason for this statement, but it is more than that. if i DID own a home, i would never be cool enough to warrant ty pennington (yum) showing up on my doorstep. i am not going to be a foster/adoptive parent to kids in need (having first given up my dream career of car racing to take a job as a sanitation worker to support said munchkins), or risk my life as a lobster fisherman (including amputating my own arm when it gets caught in the winch) to raise my adorable daughters (including one, who at the age of NINE is already a raging environmentalist).so where does this leave me? aiming for the lower end shows like, "style by jury," or "10 years younger?" nah. i can barely watch those.if i were to go on TV - it would be for "til debt do us part" (but i gotta get married first to qualify) or "maxed out" ... because maybe, just maybe, if i could get my finances solidly under control i could buy myself the nyc shopping trip and a home that doesn't need a makeover!!
