Whittier, CA  Recently there have been several incidents where Whittier residents have been approached with promises of instant riches. In most cases the unsuspecting victims have been enticed with winning lottery tickets, inheritances, or claims of found money.In one instance, an elderly male was approached by a male suspect in the parking lot of the Costco warehouse in La Habra. The suspect, who is described as a male African American in his 50s, approximately 57 tall with a thin build, approached the victim claiming he had just received an inheritance. He told the victim that he was leaving to Africa and could not take the money with him, and wanted to give the money away. The male suspect along with his accomplice, who is described as a female African American approximately 50 years-old, 58 tall with a medium build, drove with the victim to a Bank of America in Norwalk. Once at the bank, the female suspect went inside and claimed to have withdrawn $6000 dollars. The victim was convinced to drive to the Southern California Credit Union in Whittier, where he withdrew $6000 dollars from his own account, and hands it over to the suspects. Both suspects told the victim to drive around the block to see if they can trust him. When the victim returned to the bank the suspects are nowhere in sight, having left with the victims money.On February 24, at 5:00pm, an elderly female was approached by a female African American, approximately 57 tall, 190 lbs, with straight hair, wearing tight purple pants and large purple sunglasses, in the parking of the Ralphs grocery store, located at 11825 Whittier Blvd. In this case the female suspect used tactics similar to the ones in the incident above, and eventually got away with $11,000.Whittier PD Detectives are urging the public to be cautious and to immediately notify the police when approached by strangers, particularly when they claim to have inheritances, found money or winning lottery tickets.Anyone with information pertaining to any of these suspects identities is urged to contact the Whittier Police Department at (562)-945-8250. 
